ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This discussion and analysis contains statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. All statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. The words “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “predict,” “believe” and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements appear in a number of places in this discussion and analysis and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company, its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things, trends affecting the Company’s financial condition or results of operations, including expected impacts from the ongoing novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”) pandemic and related public health measures, the Company’s strategy and strategic initiatives and the outcome of contingencies such as litigation and investigations. Readers are cautioned that any forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, including those related to COVID-19. More information regarding these risks and uncertainties (many of which may be amplified by COVID-19) and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the “Annual Report”). The Company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). This section should be read together with the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation and related notes set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report.

Other than for the discussions regarding the Company's new reportable segments, Dow Jones and News Media, the following discussion and analysis omits discussion of fiscal 2018. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 for a discussion on fiscal 2018.

INTRODUCTION

News Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, “News Corporation,” “News Corp,” the “Company,” “we,” or “us”) is a global diversified media and information services company comprised of businesses across a range of media, including: digital real estate services, subscription video services in Australia, news and information services and book publishing. During the three months ended June 30, 2020, in connection with the Company's sale of its News America Marketing reporting unit and its annual review of its reportable segments, the Company determined to disaggregate its Dow Jones operating segment as a separate reportable segment in accordance with Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 280, “Segment Reporting.” Previously, the financial information for this operating segment was aggregated with the businesses within the News Media operating segment and, together, formed the News and Information Services reportable segment. Following the sale of its News America Marketing business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 and in conjunction with the Company’s annual budgeting process, the Company determined that aggregation was no longer appropriate as certain of the remaining businesses no longer shared similar economic characteristics. As a result, the Company has revised its historical disclosures to reflect the new Dow Jones and News Media reportable segments for all years presented. 

Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior period consolidated financial statements to conform to the current fiscal year presentation. Specifically, the Company reclassified the costs associated with certain initiatives previously included within the Other segment to segments directly benefited by these initiatives. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, these reclassifications to Selling, general and administrative were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

36
The consolidated financial statements are referred to herein as the “Consolidated Financial Statements.” The consolidated statements of operations are referred to herein as the “Statements of Operations.” The consolidated balance sheets are referred to herein as the “Balance Sheets.” The consolidated statements of cash flows are referred to herein as the “Statements of Cash Flows.” The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”).

Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is intended to help provide an understanding of the Company’s financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations. This discussion is organized as follows:

•Overview of the Company’s Businesses—This section provides a general description of the Company’s businesses, as well as developments that occurred during the two fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and through the date of this filing that the Company believes are important in understanding its results of operations and financial condition or to disclose known trends.

•Results of Operations—This section provides an analysis of the Company’s results of operations for the two fiscal years ended June 30, 2020. This analysis is presented on both a consolidated basis and a segment basis. Supplemental revenue information is also included for reporting units within certain segments and is presented on a gross basis, before eliminations in consolidation. The Company has also presented a discussion of the results of operations on a segment basis for its Dow Jones and News Media segments for the two fiscal years ended June 30, 2019. In addition, a brief description is provided of significant transactions and events that impact the comparability of the results being analyzed. The Company maintains a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday closest to June 30 in each year. Fiscal 2020 and 2019 each included 52 weeks.

•Liquidity and Capital Resources—This section provides an analysis of the Company’s cash flows for the two fiscal years ended June 30, 2020, as well as a discussion of the Company’s financial arrangements and outstanding commitments, both firm and contingent, that existed as of June 30, 2020.

•Critical Accounting Policies—This section discusses accounting policies considered important to the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in application. In addition, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements summarizes the Company’s significant accounting policies, including the critical accounting policies discussed in this section.

OVERVIEW OF THE COMPANY’S BUSINESSES

The Company manages and reports its businesses in the following six segments:

•Digital Real Estate Services—The Digital Real Estate Services segment consists of the Company’s 61.6% interest in REA Group and 80% interest in Move. The remaining 20% interest in Move is held by REA Group. REA Group is a market-leading digital media business specializing in property and is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (“ASX”) (ASX: REA). REA Group advertises property and property-related services on its websites and mobile apps across Australia and Asia, including Australia’s leading residential, commercial and share property websites, realestate.com.au, realcommercial.com.au and Flatmates.com.au, and property portals in Asia. In addition, REA Group provides property-related data to the financial sector and financial services through an end-to-end digital property search and financing experience and a mortgage broking offering.

Move is a leading provider of digital real estate services in the U.S. and primarily operates realtor.com®, a premier real estate information and services marketplace. Move offers real estate advertising solutions to agents and brokers, including its ConnectionsSM Plus and AdvantageSM Pro products as well as its referral-based services. Move also offers a number of professional software and services products, including Top Producer® and ListHub™.

•Subscription Video Services—The Company’s Subscription Video Services segment provides video sports, entertainment and news services to pay-TV subscribers and other commercial licensees, primarily via cable, satellite and internet distribution, and consists of (i) the Company’s 65% interest in Foxtel (with the remaining 35% interest in Foxtel held by Telstra, an ASX-listed telecommunications company) and (ii) Australian News Channel (“ANC”). Foxtel is the largest pay-TV provider in Australia, with nearly 200 channels covering sports, general entertainment, movies, documentaries, music, children’s programming and news. Foxtel offers the leading sports programming content in Australia, with broadcast rights to live sporting events including: National Rugby League, Australian Football League, Cricket Australia, the domestic football league, the Australian Rugby Union and various motorsports programming. Foxtel also operates Foxtel Now, an over-the-top, or OTT, service that provides access across Foxtel's live and on-demand content, Kayo, its sports OTT service, and Binge, its recently launched on-demand entertainment OTT service.

37
ANC operates the SKY NEWS network, Australia’s 24-hour multi-channel, multi-platform news service. ANC channels are distributed throughout Australia and New Zealand and available on Foxtel and Sky Network Television NZ. ANC also owns and operates the international Australia Channel IPTV service and offers content across a variety of digital media platforms, including web, mobile and third party providers.

•Dow Jones—The Dow Jones segment consists of Dow Jones, a global provider of news and business information, which distributes its content and data through a variety of media channels including newspapers, newswires, websites, applications, or apps, for mobile devices, tablets and e-book readers, newsletters, magazines, proprietary databases, live journalism, video and podcasts. Dow Jones’s products, which target individual consumer and enterprise customers, include The Wall Street Journal, Factiva, Dow Jones Risk & Compliance, Dow Jones Newswires, Barron’s and MarketWatch.

•Book Publishing—The Book Publishing segment consists of HarperCollins, the second largest consumer book publisher in the world, with operations in 17 countries and particular strengths in general fiction, nonfiction, children’s and religious publishing. HarperCollins owns more than 120 branded publishing imprints, including Harper, William Morrow, HarperCollins Children’s Books, Avon, Harlequin and Christian publishers Zondervan and Thomas Nelson, and publishes works by well-known authors such as Harper Lee, Chip and Joanna Gaines, David Williams, Angie Thomas, Sarah Young and Agatha Christie and popular titles such as The Hobbit, Goodnight Moon, To Kill a Mockingbird, Jesus Calling and The Hate U Give.

•News Media—The News Media segment consists primarily of News Corp Australia, News UK and the New York Post and includes, among other publications, The Australian, The Daily Telegraph, Herald Sun, The Courier Mail and The Advertiser in Australia and The Times, The Sunday Times, The Sun and The Sun on Sunday in the U.K. This segment also includes Wireless Group, operator of talkSPORT, the leading sports radio network in the U.K., and Storyful, a social media content agency. The segment included News America Marketing until the completion of the sale of the business on May 5, 2020.

•Other—The Other segment consists primarily of general corporate overhead expenses, the corporate Strategy Group and costs related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters.

Digital Real Estate Services

The Digital Real Estate Services segment generates revenue through property and property-related advertising and services, including the sale of real estate listing products and referral-based services to agents, brokers and developers, real estate services, display advertising on its residential real estate and commercial property sites and residential property data services to the financial sector. The Digital Real Estate Services segment also generates revenue through licenses of certain professional software products on a subscription basis and fees and commissions from referrals generated through its end-to-end digital property search and financing offering and mortgage broking services. Significant expenses associated with these sites, services and software solutions include development costs, advertising and promotional expenses, hosting and support services, salaries, broker commissions, employee benefits and other routine overhead expenses.

Consumers overwhelmingly turn to the internet and mobile devices for real estate information and services. The Digital Real Estate Services segment’s success depends on its continued innovation to provide products and services that are useful for consumers and real estate, mortgage and financial services professionals and attractive to its advertisers. The Digital Real Estate Services segment operates in a highly competitive digital environment with other real estate and property websites.

Subscription Video Services

The Company’s Subscription Video Services segment consists of (i) its 65% interest in Foxtel and (ii) ANC. Foxtel is the largest pay-TV provider in Australia, delivering nearly 200 channels including the leading sports programming content in Australia. Foxtel generates revenue primarily through subscription revenue as well as advertising revenue.

Foxtel competes for audiences primarily with a variety of other video content providers, such as traditional Free-To-Air (“FTA”) TV operators in Australia, including the three major commercial FTA networks and two major government-funded FTA broadcasters, and new content providers that deliver video programming over the internet. These providers include, Internet Protocol television, or IPTV, and subscription video-on-demand providers such as Fetch TV, Netflix, Stan and Amazon Prime Video; streaming services offered through digital media providers; as well as programmers and distributors that provide content directly to consumers over the internet.

38
ANC operates the SKY NEWS network, Australia’s 24-hour multi-channel, multi-platform news service, and also owns and operates the Australia Channel IPTV service for international markets. Revenue is primarily derived from monthly affiliate fees received from pay-TV providers based on the number of subscribers and advertising.

The most significant operating expenses of the Subscription Video Services segment are the acquisition and production expenses related to programming, the expenses related to operating the technical facilities of the broadcast operations, expenses related to cable, satellite, internet and broadband transmission costs and studio and engineering expense. The expenses associated with licensing certain programming rights are recognized during the applicable season or event, which can cause results at the Subscription Video Services segment to fluctuate based on the timing and mix of Foxtel’s local and international sports programming. Programming rights associated with a dedicated channel are amortized over 12 months. Other expenses include subscriber acquisition costs such as sales costs and marketing and promotional expenses related to improving the market visibility and awareness of the channels and their programming. Additional expenses include salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overhead expenses.

Dow Jones

Dow Jones’s products target individual consumers and enterprise customers. Revenue from Dow Jones’s consumer business is derived primarily from circulation, which includes subscription and single-copy sales of its digital and print consumer products, the sale of digital and print advertising, licensing fees for its print and digital consumer content and participation fees for its live journalism events. Circulation revenues are dependent on the content of Dow Jones’s consumer products, prices of its and/or competitors’ products, as well as promotional activities and news cycles. Advertising revenue is dependent on a number of factors, including demand for Dow Jones’s consumer products, general economic and business conditions, including adverse effects resulting from the economic uncertainty created by COVID-19, demographics of the customer base, advertising rates and effectiveness and brand strength and reputation. Advertising revenues are also subject to seasonality, with revenues typically highest in the Company's second fiscal quarter due to the end-of-year holiday season. In addition, the traditional consumer print business faces challenges from alternative media formats and shifting consumer preferences, which have adversely affected, and are expected to continue to adversely affect, both print circulation and advertising revenues. Advertising, in particular, has been impacted by long-term structural movements in advertising spending from print to digital. The increasing range of advertising choices and formats has resulted in audience fragmentation and increased competition. Technologies and policies have also been and will continue to be developed and implemented that may make it more difficult to serve digital advertising based on user data and behaviors or allow users to block advertising on websites and mobile devices, which may impact digital advertising rates or revenues. As a multi-platform news provider, Dow Jones recognizes the importance of maximizing revenues from a variety of media formats and platforms, both in terms of paid-for content and in new advertising models, and continues to invest in its digital and other products, which represent an increasingly larger share of revenues at its consumer business. Smartphones, tablets and similar devices, their related apps and other technologies, provide continued opportunities for Dow Jones to make its content available to a new audience of readers, introduce new or different pricing schemes and develop its products to continue to attract advertisers and/or affect the relationship between content providers and consumers. Dow Jones continues to develop and implement strategies to exploit its content across a variety of media channels and platforms, including leveraging its content through licensing arrangements with third-party distribution platforms and growing its live journalism events business, which has been affected in recent periods by uncertainty, cancellations and postponements caused by COVID-19 and new revenue models for virtual events.

Operating expenses for the consumer business include costs related to paper, production, distribution, third party printing, editorial and commissions. Selling, general and administrative expenses include promotional expenses, salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overheads. The costs associated with printing and distributing newspapers, including paper prices and delivery costs, are key operating expenses whose fluctuations can have a material effect on the results of Dow Jones’s consumer business. The Dow Jones consumer business is affected by the cyclical increases and decreases in the price of paper and other factors that may affect paper prices, including tariffs or other restrictions on non-U.S. paper suppliers. In addition, Dow Jones relies on third parties for much of the printing and distribution of its print products. Long-term structural movements from print to digital and the more immediate economic impacts of COVID-19 present challenges to the financial and operational stability of these third parties which could, in turn, increase the cost of printing and distributing the Company's newspapers. 

Dow Jones’s consumer products compete for consumers, audience and advertising with other local and national newspapers, web and app-based media, magazines, social media sources and podcasts, as well as other media such as television, radio stations and outdoor displays. As a result of rapidly changing and evolving technologies, distribution platforms and business models, Dow Jones’s consumer business continues to face increasing competition for both circulation and advertising revenue, including from a variety of alternative news and information sources. These include both paid and free websites, digital apps, news aggregators, blogs, podcasts, search engines, social media networks, digital advertising networks and exchanges, bidding and other 

39
programmatic advertising buying channels, as well as other emerging media and distribution platforms, including off-platform distribution of its products.

Dow Jones’s professional information business, which targets enterprise customers, derives revenue primarily from subscriptions to its professional information products. The professional information business serves enterprise customers with products that combine news and information with technology and tools that inform decisions and aid awareness, research and understanding. The success of the professional information business depends on its ability to provide products, services, applications and functionalities that meet the needs of its enterprise customers, who operate in information-intensive and oftentimes highly regulated industries such as finance and insurance. The professional information business must also anticipate and respond to industry trends and regulatory and technological changes.

Significant expenses for the professional information business include development costs, sales and marketing expenses, hosting and support services, royalties, salaries, consulting and professional fees, sales commissions, employee benefits and other routine overhead expenses.

Dow Jones professional information products compete with various information service providers, compliance data providers and global financial newswires, including Reuters News, LexisNexis and Refinitiv, as well as many other providers of news, information and compliance data.

Book Publishing

The Book Publishing segment derives revenues from the sale of general fiction, nonfiction, children’s and religious books in the U.S. and internationally. The revenues and operating results of the Book Publishing segment are significantly affected by the timing of releases and the number of its books in the marketplace. The book publishing marketplace is subject to increased periods of demand during the end-of-year holiday season in its main operating geographies. This marketplace is highly competitive and continues to change due to technological developments, including additional digital platforms, such as e-books and downloadable audiobooks, and distribution channels and other factors. Each book is a separate and distinct product and its financial success depends upon many factors, including public acceptance.

Major new title releases represent a significant portion of the Book Publishing segment’s sales throughout the fiscal year. Print-based consumer books are generally sold on a fully returnable basis, resulting in the return of unsold books. In the domestic and international markets, the Book Publishing segment is subject to global trends and local economic conditions. Operating expenses for the Book Publishing segment include costs related to paper, printing, authors’ royalties, editorial, promotional, art and design expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overhead.

News Media

Revenue at the News Media segment is derived primarily from the sale of advertising, circulation and subscriptions, as well as licensing. Adverse changes in general market conditions for advertising, including as a result of the economic uncertainty caused by COVID-19, continue to affect revenues. Advertising revenues at the News Media segment are also subject to seasonality, with revenues typically being highest in the Company’s second fiscal quarter due to the end-of-year holiday season in its main operating geographies. Circulation and subscription revenues can be greatly affected by changes in the prices of the Company’s and/or competitors’ products, as well as by promotional activities and news cycles.

Operating expenses include costs related to paper, production, distribution, third party printing, editorial, commissions and radio sports rights. Selling, general and administrative expenses include promotional expenses, salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overhead.

The cost of paper is a key operating expense whose fluctuations can have a material effect on the results of the segment. The News Media segment continues to be exposed to risks associated with paper used for printing. Paper is a basic commodity and its price is sensitive to the balance of supply and demand. The News Media segment’s expenses are affected by the cyclical increases and decreases in the price of paper and other factors that may affect paper prices, including tariffs. The News Media segment’s products compete for readership, audience and advertising with local and national competitors and also compete with other media alternatives in their respective markets. Competition for circulation and subscriptions is based on the content of the products provided, pricing and, from time to time, various promotions. The success of these products also depends upon advertisers’ judgments as to the most effective use of their advertising budgets. Competition for advertising is based upon the reach of the products, advertising rates and advertiser results. Such judgments are based on factors such as cost, availability of alternative media, distribution and quality of consumer demographics.

40
The News Media segment's traditional print business faces challenges from alternative media formats and shifting consumer preferences. The News Media segment is also exposed to the impact of long-term structural movements in advertising spending, in particular, the move in advertising from print to digital. These alternative media formats could impact the segment’s overall performance, positively or negatively. In addition, technologies and policies have been and will continue to be developed and implemented that may make it more difficult to serve digital advertising based on user data and behaviors or allow users to block advertising on websites and mobile devices, which may impact digital advertising rates or revenues.

As multi-platform news providers, the businesses within the News Media segment recognize the importance of maximizing revenues from a variety of media formats and platforms, both in terms of paid-for content and in new advertising models, and continue to invest in their digital products. Smartphones, tablets and similar devices, their related apps and other technologies, provide continued opportunities for the businesses within the News Media segment to make their content available to a new audience of readers, introduce new or different pricing schemes and develop their products to continue to attract advertisers and/or affect the relationship between content providers and consumers. The businesses within the News Media segment continue to develop and implement strategies to exploit their content across a variety of media channels and platforms.

Other

The Other segment primarily consists of general corporate overhead expenses, the corporate Strategy Group and costs related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters.

Other Business Developments

COVID-19 Impact

COVID-19 is believed to have been first identified in China in late 2019 and has spread globally. The rapid spread has resulted in authorities implementing numerous measures to try to contain the virus, including quarantines, shelter-in-place and other social distancing orders, event cancellations, travel restrictions, school shutdowns and orders for many businesses to curtail or cease normal operations. The impact of COVID-19 and measures to prevent its spread have created significant economic volatility, uncertainty and disruption and have affected, and are continuing to affect, the Company’s businesses in a number of ways. These impacts began to materialize toward the end of the third fiscal quarter, continued into the fourth fiscal quarter and had a material impact on the Company’s results of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. While the Company expects the impacts to continue into fiscal 2021, the rate and magnitude are expected to slow to the extent containment measures in its primary operating geographies become more relaxed over time. However, recent spikes in infections in a number of jurisdictions have caused governments to reassess the easing of social distancing measures and business curtailments and closures and may cause governmental agencies to impose previous restrictions, which could, in turn, delay expected improvements in the economy and the Company’s business. As of the date of this filing, the Company has observed the following effects on its businesses:

Digital Real Estate Services: The real estate markets in Australia, Asia and the U.S. have been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted as a result of social distancing measures, business closures and economic uncertainty resulting from COVID-19. Weakness in new listing volumes, lower transaction volume and other adverse effects, as well as measures the Company has taken to support its customers, including re-list and re-upgrade offers for new listings and price concessions, have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect revenues. Although residential real estate activity has increased in recent months, including higher listing volumes in Australia and improved lead volume in the U.S., real estate markets are expected to remain volatile while COVID-19 is ongoing, particularly as governments in Australia and the U.S. have reimposed various restrictions. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company continued to see strong user traffic at its primary online properties.

Subscription Video Services: The cancellation or postponement of sports events for which the Company has broadcast rights resulted in fewer subscribers to its sports services beginning in March 2020, including Kayo, which, in turn, has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect subscription revenue from broadcast and Kayo subscribers and, together with adverse economic conditions, have negatively impacted and are expected to continue to adversely impact advertising revenue. However, the Company began to see subscribers return to its sports services during the fourth quarter as a number of live sports resumed across Australia, including a significant increase in Kayo subscribers. The Company has resumed recognizing programming amortization expense for those events that have restarted, and expects to recognize approximately $55 million of additional sports programming rights costs in fiscal 2021 that were deferred from fiscal 2020. Profitability in future periods may be adversely impacted if the Company does not generate sufficient incremental subscription and advertising revenues to offset these costs and compensate for prior losses. In addition, the closures of pubs and clubs and lower occupancy at hotels throughout Australia have adversely impacted and are expected to continue to adversely impact commercial subscription revenues; however 

41
the Company has seen the gradual recovery of commercial subscribers which remains dependent on the easing of government restrictions and social distancing measures.

As a result of the cancellation or postponement of sports events, the Company renegotiated its existing agreements with certain affected sports leagues to reflect the modified scheduling of sports events and cost concessions and expects to save an estimated A$180 million in sports programming costs over the next three fiscal years as a result. While a number of sports have resumed play, any future postponement of sports events for which the Company has broadcast rights will cause a deferral of the recognition of the associated programming amortization expense for the period in which no live games are being played.

Dow Jones: Advertising and single-copy sales revenues in the segment have been, and are expected to continue to be, adversely affected as a result of business closures, social distancing measures and economic uncertainty resulting from COVID-19. Live journalism events also continue to be impacted by uncertainty, cancellations and postponements caused by travel restrictions, social distancing measures and economic uncertainty resulting from COVID-19; however, the Company is developing new revenue models around virtual events in response to the current environment. The Company has seen increases in digital paid subscriptions at The Wall Street Journal, as well as digital audience gains at Dow Jones’s online properties.

Book Publishing: Sales have been adversely affected by shipping restrictions and delays imposed by online retailers, as well as closures of, and operational restrictions on, brick-and-mortar retail stores. The impact of such restrictions has diminished in recent months as governmental restrictions and shelter in place orders have been gradually reduced. The Company has also seen an increase in sales of digital formats of its titles, which remain readily available from online retailers.

News Media: Advertising and single-copy sales revenues in the segment have been, and are expected to continue to be, adversely affected as a result of business closures, social distancing measures and economic uncertainty resulting from COVID-19. However, the Company has seen increases in digital paid subscribers, including at the The Times, The Sunday Times and The Australian, as well as digital audience gains at online versions of its news properties.

The Company has taken various steps to mitigate the impact of COVID-19, including reducing variable costs and implementing cost-savings initiatives across its businesses such as significant reductions and/or deferrals in discretionary spending, non-essential capital expenditures and headcount and permanently transitioning certain newspaper operations to digital-only. The Company expects to benefit from these cost-savings initiatives in future periods, including an estimated $100 million of cost reductions at Foxtel in fiscal 2021, net of the $55 million increase in sports rights costs described above. The Company is also implementing a shared services program to centralize a number of its functional areas. While it is still evaluating the cost savings opportunity from this program and the upfront investment required, the Company expects to recognize annualized cost savings of at least $100 million beginning in fiscal 2022.

The ultimate impact of COVID-19, including the extent of adverse impacts on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, will depend on, among other things, the severity, duration, spread and any reoccurrence of COVID-19, the impact of governmental actions and business and consumer behavior in response to COVID-19, the effectiveness of actions taken to contain or mitigate the outbreak and prevent or limit any reoccurrence, the resulting global economic conditions and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume, all of which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. The evolving and uncertain nature of this situation makes it challenging for management to estimate the future performance of the Company’s businesses, including the supply and demand for the Company’s products and services, its cash flows, its advertising revenues, the impact on the delivery of programming and associated payments and the collectability of receivables. For additional information regarding risks related to COVID-19, please see “The ongoing novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and other similar epidemics, pandemics or widespread health crises could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position.” in Part I, Item 1A. of this Form 10-K.

Sale of News America Marketing

On May 5, 2020, the Company sold its News America Marketing business, a reporting unit within its News Media segment (the “Disposition”). The aggregate purchase price for the Disposition consists of (a) up to approximately $235 million, comprised of (i) $50 million in cash at closing, subject to working capital and other adjustments, less cash reinvested to acquire a 5% equity interest in the business at closing, and (ii) additional deferred cash payments payable on or before the fifth anniversary of closing in an aggregate amount of between $125 million and approximately $185 million, depending on the timing of such payments, and (b) a warrant to purchase up to an additional 10% equity interest in the business, which is exercisable on or prior to the seventh anniversary of closing. In the Disposition, the Company retained certain liabilities relating to News America Marketing, including those arising from its ongoing legal proceedings with Valassis Communications, Inc. and Insignia Systems, Inc. See Note 17—

42
Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 4—Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Sale of Unruly

In January 2020, the Company sold Unruly to Tremor International Ltd (“Tremor”) for approximately 7% of Tremor’s outstanding shares. The Company agreed not to sell the Tremor shares for a period of 18 months after closing. At closing, the Company and Tremor entered into a three year commercial arrangement which granted Tremor the exclusive right to sell outstream video advertising on all of the Company’s digital properties in exchange for a total minimum revenue guarantee for News Corp of £30 million. See Note 4—Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Fiscal 2019 

In October 2018, the Company acquired Opcity Inc. (“Opcity”), a market-leading real estate technology platform that matches qualified home buyers and sellers with real estate professionals in real time. The total transaction value was approximately $210 million, consisting of approximately $182 million in cash, net of $7 million of cash acquired, and approximately $28 million in deferred payments and restricted stock unit awards for Opcity’s founders and qualifying employees, which is being recognized as compensation expense over the three years following the closing. Included in the cash amount was approximately $20 million that is being held back to satisfy post-closing claims. The acquisition broadens realtor.com®’s lead generation product portfolio, allowing real estate professionals to choose between traditional lead products or a referral-based model that provides highly vetted, transaction-ready leads. Opcity is a subsidiary of Move, and its results are included within the Digital Real Estate Services segment.

In addition to the acquisition noted above, the Company used $26 million of cash for additional acquisitions during fiscal 2019, primarily relating to Racing Internet Services (“Racenet”) and Medium Rare Content Agency (“Medium Rare”), an integrated content agency. Racenet and Medium Rare are subsidiaries of News Corp Australia and the results of each are included within the News Media segment.

Results of Operations—Fiscal 2020 versus Fiscal 2019

The following table sets forth the Company’s operating results for fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

43
________________________

** not meaningful

Revenues—Revenues decreased $1,066 million, or 11%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019. The decrease was largely driven by lower revenues at the News Media segment of $606 million, primarily due to lower revenues from News America Marketing of $246 million driven mainly by the sale of the business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, continued weakness in the print advertising market, which was further exacerbated by COVID-19, the $91 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations and the absence of the $48 million benefit related to News UK’s exit from the partnership for Sun Bets in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, partially offset by price increases and digital subscriber growth across key mastheads. Revenues at the Subscription Video Services segment decreased by $318 million, primarily due to the $126 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations and lower subscription revenues resulting from fewer broadcast subscribers and changes in the subscriber package mix, partially offset by $44 million of higher revenues from OTT products, primarily Kayo. Revenues at the Digital Real Estate Services and Book Publishing segments decreased $94 million and $88 million, respectively, while revenues at the Dow Jones segment increased $41 million. COVID-19 had an estimated $370 million negative impact on consolidated revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. The impact represents the Company’s best estimate based on historical trends in operating performance and known identifiable impacts.

The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue decrease of $275 million, or 3%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019. The Company calculates the impact of foreign currency fluctuations for businesses reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar by multiplying the results for each quarter in the current period by the difference between the average exchange rate for that quarter and the average exchange rate in effect during the corresponding quarter of the prior year and totaling the impact for all quarters in the current period.

Operating expenses—Operating expenses decreased $639 million, or 11%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019. The decrease was largely due to lower operating expenses at the News Media segment of $358 million, primarily due to the sale of News America Marketing, cost savings initiatives, the $50 million positive impact of foreign currency fluctuations, lower newsprint, production and distribution costs and the $22 million impact from the settlement of certain warranty-related claims pertaining to previously incurred and ongoing repairs and maintenance costs for News UK’s printing business. The decrease was also due to lower operating expenses at the Subscription Video Services segment of $256 million, primarily due to the $78 million positive impact of foreign currency fluctuations, lower sports and entertainment programming costs and lower transmission costs. Operating expenses at the Book Publishing segment decreased $40 million. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in an Operating expense decrease of $138 million, or 2%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019.

Selling, general and administrative—Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $196 million, or 6%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019. The decrease in Selling, general and administrative for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 was primarily due to lower expenses of $119 million at the News Media segment, driven by the $41 million positive impact of foreign currency fluctuations, cost savings initiatives, the absence of costs associated with the sale of certain local radio stations in the U.K. in fiscal 2019 and the absence of costs resulting from the sale of Unruly in the third quarter of fiscal 2020. The decrease was also due to lower expenses of $66 million at the Digital Real Estate Services segment, driven by lower marketing costs and cost savings initiatives. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a Selling, general and administrative decrease of $92 million, or 3%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019.

Depreciation and amortization—Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $15 million, or 2%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a depreciation and amortization expense decrease of $26 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019.

Impairment and restructuring charges—During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $140 million and $92 million, respectively, of which $84 million and $68 million, respectively, related to the News Media segment. The increase in restructuring charges was primarily as a result of initiatives undertaken by the Company in response to COVID-19.

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, the Company recognized non-cash impairment charges of $1,690 million, primarily due to a $931 million write-down of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets at its Foxtel reporting unit in the third quarter of fiscal 2020, $410 million of write-downs related to News America Marketing, including $175 million related to its reclassification to assets held for sale in the third quarter of fiscal 2020, and $292 million in impairments of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets identified during the Company's annual impairment assessment.

44
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, the Company recognized non-cash impairment charges of $96 million primarily related to the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets.

See Note 5—Restructuring Programs, Note 7—Property, Plant and Equipment and Note 8—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

Equity losses of affiliates—Equity losses of affiliates increased by $30 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019, primarily due to the impairment of certain equity method investments. See Note 6—Investments in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

Interest expense, net—Interest expense, net for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 decreased $34 million as compared to fiscal 2019, primarily due to the settlement of cash flow hedges related to debt maturities occurring in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and lower third party interest expense due to repayments of maturing debt facilities. See Note 9—Borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Other, net—Other, net decreased $24 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019. See Note 22—Additional Financial Information in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

Income tax expense—The Company’s income tax expense and effective tax rate for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 were $21 million and (1)%, respectively, as compared to an income tax expense and effective tax rate of $126 million and 36%, respectively, for fiscal 2019.

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 the Company recorded income tax expense of $21 million on a pre-tax loss of $1,524 million resulting in an effective tax rate that was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate. The tax rate was impacted by the non-cash impairments, which have low or no tax benefit, valuation allowances being recorded against tax benefits in certain foreign jurisdictions with operating losses and by the impact of foreign operations which are subject to higher tax rates. 

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, the Company recorded income tax expense of $126 million on pre-tax income of $354 million resulting in an effective tax rate that was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate. The higher tax rate was primarily due to lower tax benefits on impairments, valuation allowances being recorded against tax benefits in certain foreign jurisdictions with operating losses and the impact from foreign operations which are subject to higher tax rates.

Management assesses available evidence to determine whether sufficient future taxable income will be generated to permit the use of existing deferred tax assets. Based on management’s assessment of available evidence, it has been determined that it is more likely than not that certain deferred tax assets in U.S. Federal, State and foreign jurisdictions may not be realized and therefore, a valuation allowance has been established against those tax assets.

The adverse economic effects of COVID-19 have caused the Company to reassess the need for valuation allowances against deferred tax assets. As a result of this analysis, the Company determined no additional valuation allowances were needed against deferred tax assets and the Company will continue to monitor the impacts of COVID-19 on the Company’s ability to realize its deferred tax assets.

In response to COVID-19, many governments have enacted measures to provide aid and economic stimulus to companies. These measures include deferring the due dates of tax payments, favorable changes in estimated payment calculations, or other changes to their income and non-income-based tax laws (the “COVID-19 measures”). On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”) was enacted in the U.S. in response to COVID-19. The CARES Act contains several income tax provisions, such as relaxing limitations on the deductibility of interest and the use of net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, there were no material impacts to the Company’s income tax provision as it relates to COVID-19 measures. The Company continues to monitor developments in relation to COVID-19 measures and their applicability to its business in the jurisdictions where it operates.

Net (loss) income—Net loss was $1,545 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, a decline of $1,773 million as compared to fiscal 2019, primarily driven by the increase in non-cash impairment and restructuring charges discussed above.

Net loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests—Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was $276 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, a decline of $349 million as compared to fiscal 2019, primarily due to the impact of the non-cash impairment charges recognized at the Company’s Foxtel reporting unit. 

45
Segment Analysis

Segment EBITDA is defined as revenues less operating expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses. Segment EBITDA does not include: depreciation and amortization, impairment and restructuring charges, equity losses of affiliates, interest (expense) income, net, other, net and income tax (expense) benefit. Segment EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies, since companies and investors may differ as to what items should be included in the calculation of Segment EBITDA.

Segment EBITDA is the primary measure used by the Company’s chief operating decision maker to evaluate the performance of, and allocate resources within, the Company’s businesses. Segment EBITDA provides management, investors and equity analysts with a measure to analyze the operating performance of each of the Company’s business segments and its enterprise value against historical data and competitors’ data, although historical results may not be indicative of future results (as operating performance is highly contingent on many factors, including customer tastes and preferences).

Total Segment EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, net income (loss), cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this measure does not reflect cash available to fund requirements and excludes items, such as depreciation and amortization and impairment and restructuring charges, which are significant components in assessing the Company’s financial performance. The Company believes that the presentation of Total Segment EBITDA provides useful information regarding the Company’s operations and other factors that affect the Company’s reported results. Specifically, the Company believes that by excluding certain one-time or non-cash items such as impairment and restructuring charges and depreciation and amortization, as well as potential distortions between periods caused by factors such as financing and capital structures and changes in tax positions or regimes, the Company provides users of its consolidated financial statements with insight into both its core operations as well as the factors that affect reported results between periods but which the Company believes are not representative of its core business. As a result, users of the Company’s consolidated financial statements are better able to evaluate changes in the core operating results of the Company across different periods. 

The following table reconciles Net (loss) income to Total Segment EBITDA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table sets forth the Company’s Revenues and Segment EBITDA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

46
Digital Real Estate Services (12% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in both fiscal 2020 and 2019)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, revenues at the Digital Real Estate Services segment decreased $94 million, or 8%, as compared to fiscal 2019. At REA Group, revenues decreased $82 million, or 12%, to $592 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 from $674 million in fiscal 2019. The lower revenues were primarily due to the $39 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations, a decrease in Australian residential depth revenue driven by declines in listing volumes and lower developer revenue due to fewer project launches. Revenues at Move decreased $11 million, or 2%, to $473 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 from $484 million in fiscal 2019, driven by a $13 million and $7 million decline in software and services and advertising revenues, respectively, partially offset by a $9 million increase in real estate revenues. Increased real estate revenues generated from the referral model and the Local Expert and Market Reach products were partially offset by lower lead generation product revenues resulting from the transition of leads to the referral model. Discounts offered to customers in response to the COVID-19 pandemic had an estimated $15 million negative impact on real estate revenues at Move.

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, Segment EBITDA at the Digital Real Estate Services segment decreased $33 million, or 9%, as compared to fiscal 2019. The decrease in Segment EBITDA was primarily due to lower revenues as discussed above, the $21 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations and the $10 million impact associated with the acquisition of and continued investment in Opcity, partially offset by lower costs at Move and REA Group.

Subscription Video Services (21% and 22% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, revenues at the Subscription Video Services segment decreased $318 million, or 14%, as compared to fiscal 2019. The revenue decrease was primarily due to the negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations, lower subscription revenues resulting from fewer residential broadcast subscribers, changes in the subscriber package mix and the $30 million impact from lower commercial subscription revenues resulting from the closures of pubs, clubs and other commercial venues due to COVID-19 and lower advertising revenues due to market weakness exacerbated by COVID-19, partially offset by $44 million of higher revenues from OTT products, primarily Kayo. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue decrease of $126 million, or 5%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019.

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, Segment EBITDA decreased $56 million, or 15%, as compared to fiscal 2019. The Segment EBITDA decrease was primarily due to the lower revenues discussed above, the $24 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations and $16 million of higher non-cash expense related to the acceleration of entertainment programming cost 

47
amortization, partially offset by $65 million of lower sports programming costs, a decrease in entertainment programming costs due to lower license fees and lower transmission costs. The lower sports programming costs were primarily driven by the postponement or cancellation of live sports for which the Company has broadcast rights due to COVID-19. The postponement of sports events results in a deferral of the associated programming amortization expense for the period that no live games are being played.

The following tables provide information regarding certain key performance indicators for Foxtel, the primary reporting unit within the Subscription Video Services segment, as of and for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019. Management believes these metrics provide useful information to allow investors to understand trends in consumer behavior and acceptance of the various services offered by Foxtel. Management utilizes these metrics to track and forecast subscription revenue trends across the business’s various linear and OTT products. See “Part I. Business” for further detail regarding these performance indicators including definitions and methods of calculation:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Subscribing households throughout Australia as of June 30, 2020 and 2019.

(b) Commercial subscribers throughout Australia as of June 30, 2020 and 2019. 

(c) Total and Paid Foxtel Now subscribers as of June 30, 2020 and 2019.

(d) Total and Paid Kayo subscribers as of June 30, 2020 and 2019. As of August 4, 2020, Kayo had approximately 590 thousand subscribers, of which 542 thousand were paying.

(e)  Total and Paid Binge subscribers as of June 30, 2020. Binge was launched on May 25, 2020. As of August 4, 2020, Binge had approximately 217 thousand subscribers, of which 185 thousand were paying.

(f) Average monthly broadcast residential subscription revenue per user (excluding Optus) (Broadcast ARPU) for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019.

(g) Broadcast residential subscriber churn rate (excluding Optus) (Broadcast Subscriber Churn) for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019.

Dow Jones (18% and 15% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

48
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, revenues at the Dow Jones segment increased $41 million, or 3%, as compared to fiscal 2019 due to the growth in circulation and subscription revenues, partially offset by a decline in print advertising revenues. Digital revenues at the Dow Jones segment represented 67% of total revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, as compared to 63% in fiscal 2019. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue decrease of $5 million as compared to fiscal 2019.

Circulation and subscription revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Circulation and subscription revenues increased $71 million, or 6%, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019. Circulation and other revenues increased $43 million, or 6%, primarily due to higher circulation revenues of $28 million driven by growth in digital-only subscriptions at The Wall Street Journal and Barron’s and the $15 million increase in content licensing revenues, partially offset by lower print volume. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, average daily digital-only subscriptions at The Wall Street Journal increased 23% to 2.2 million as compared to the prior fiscal year, and digital revenues represented 58% of circulation revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. Revenues at the professional information business increased $28 million, or 7%, led by a $26 million increase in Risk & Compliance product revenues. 

The following table summarizes average daily consumer subscriptions during the fourth quarter of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 for select publications and for all consumer subscription products.(a)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________________

(a)Based on internal data for the period from March 30, 2020 to June 28, 2020, with independent assurance over global total sales and subscriptions provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP UK.

(b)Subscriptions include individual consumer subscriptions, as well as subscriptions purchased by companies, schools, businesses and associations for use by their respective employees, students, customers or members. Subscriptions exclude single-copy sales and copies purchased by hotels, airlines and other businesses for limited distribution or access to customers.

(c)For some publications, including The Wall Street Journal and Barron’s, Dow Jones sells bundled print and digital products. For bundles that provide access to both print and digital products every day of the week, only one unit is reported each day and is designated as a print subscription.For bundled products that provide access to the print product only on specified days and full digital access, one print subscription is reported for each day that a print copy is served and one digital subscription is reported for each remaining day of the week.

(d)Total Consumer consists of The Wall Street Journal, Barron’s, MarketWatch newsletters and Financial News, including Private Equity News. 

Advertising revenues

Advertising revenues decreased $34 million, or 9%, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019, primarily driven by the $40 million decrease in print advertising revenues resulting from weakness in the print advertising market, 

49
which was exacerbated by COVID-19, partially offset by a $6 million increase in digital advertising revenue, which represented 46% of advertising revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. 

Segment EBITDA

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, Segment EBITDA at the Dow Jones segment increased $28 million, or 13%, as compared to fiscal 2019. The increase was mainly due to the increase in revenues discussed above and lower newsprint, production and distribution costs, partially offset by increased employee costs.

Book Publishing (18% and 17% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, revenues at the Book Publishing segment decreased $88 million, or 5%, as compared to fiscal 2019. The decrease was primarily due to lower sales of Rachel Hollis titles, Homebody: A Guide to Creating Spaces You Never Want to Leave by Joanna Gaines, The Subtle Art Of Not Giving A F*ck by Mark Manson and The Hate U Give by Angie Thomas, as well as the $14 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations and the impact of COVID-19. The decrease was partially offset by strong sales of Magnolia Table, Volume 2 by Joanna Gaines. Digital sales increased 7% compared to fiscal 2019, driven by the continued growth in downloadable audiobooks as well as the growth of e-books as a result of COVID-19, and represented 23% of Consumer revenues during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. 

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, Segment EBITDA at the Book Publishing segment decreased $38 million, or 15%, as compared to fiscal 2019, primarily due to the lower revenues discussed above and the mix of titles, partially offset by lower costs due to lower sales volumes and cost savings initiatives implemented in response to COVID-19.

News Media (31% and 34% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, revenues at the News Media segment decreased $606 million, or 18%, as compared to fiscal 2019. The revenue decrease was primarily due to lower advertising revenues of $445 million as a result of lower revenues from News America Marketing of $246 million primarily driven by the sale of the business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, continued weakness in the print advertising market, declines related to the COVID-19 pandemic and the $41 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations, partially offset by digital advertising growth, primarily in the U.K. Advertising revenues declined approximated $100 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 driven by COVID-19 and, to a lesser extent, continued weakness in the print advertising market.

50
Other revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 decreased $109 million as compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2019 primarily due to the absence of the $48 million benefit related to News UK’s exit from the partnership for Sun Bets in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and $25 million of lower revenues due to the sale of Unruly in January 2020. 

Circulation and subscription revenues decreased $52 million as compared to fiscal 2019 primarily due to print volume declines exacerbated by COVID-19 and the $37 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations, partially offset by price increases and digital subscriber growth across key mastheads. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue decrease of $91 million, or 3%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019.

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, Segment EBITDA at the News Media segment decreased $129 million, or 71%, as compared to fiscal 2019. The decrease was mainly due to lower contributions from News America Marketing of $74 million, primarily driven by the sale in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, and from News Corp Australia of $56 million, primarily due to lower revenues. The decrease was partially offset by the $22 million impact from the settlement of certain warranty-related claims pertaining to previously incurred and ongoing repairs and maintenance costs at News UK and lower losses at the New York Post of $16 million primarily due to higher revenues.

News Corp Australia

Revenues were $1,005 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, a decrease of $192 million, or 16%, as compared to fiscal 2019 revenues of $1,197 million. Advertising revenues decreased $149 million, primarily due to the $121 million decrease in print advertising revenues, primarily driven by weakness in the print advertising market and the suspension of printing operations for approximately 60 community newspapers across Australia, as well as the $33 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations, partially offset by a $12 million increase due to the acquisition of an integrated content marketing agency. Circulation and subscription revenues decreased $24 million driven by the $24 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations, as print volume declines were offset by cover price increases and digital subscriber growth. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue decrease of $65 million, or 5%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019.

News UK

Revenues were $898 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, a decrease of $134 million, or 13%, as compared to fiscal 2019 revenues of $1,032 million. Other revenues decreased $65 million, mainly due to the absence of the $48 million benefit related to the exit from the partnership for Sun Bets in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Circulation and subscription revenues decreased $34 million, primarily due to single-copy volume declines, mainly at The Sun, which were more pronounced as a result of COVID-19, and the $13 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations, partially offset by digital subscriber growth and cover price increases across mastheads. Advertising revenues decreased $35 million, primarily due to weakness in the print advertising market and the $6 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations, partially offset by digital advertising growth, mainly at The Sun. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue decrease of $23 million, or 2%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019.

News America Marketing

Revenues at News America Marketing were $649 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, a decrease of $246 million, or 27%, as compared to fiscal 2019 revenues of $895 million. The decrease was primarily related to the sale of News America Marketing in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, as well as $60 million of lower home delivered revenues, which include free-standing insert products, due to lower volume and rates, and $30 million of lower in-store revenues, mainly due to lower client spending, through May 5, 2020. 

Results of Operations—Fiscal 2019 versus Fiscal 2018

The following section presents a discussion of the results of operations on a segment basis for the Company’s Dow Jones and News Media segments for the two fiscal years ended June 30, 2019 as if the resegmentation discussed above had occurred on July 1, 2017.

51
The following table reconciles Net income (loss) to Total Segment EBITDA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table sets forth the Company’s Revenues and Segment EBITDA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Dow Jones (15% and 17% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, revenues at the Dow Jones segment increased $49 million, or 3%, as compared to fiscal 2018 due to growth in circulation and subscription revenues, partially offset by a decline in print advertising revenues. Digital revenues at the Dow Jones segment represented 63% of total revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 as compared to 60% in fiscal 2018. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue decrease of $7 million as compared to fiscal 2018.

52
Circulation and subscription revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Circulation and subscription revenues increased $58 million, or 5%, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018. Circulation and other revenues increased $45 million, or 7%, primarily due to higher circulation revenues of $47 million driven by growth in digital-only subscriptions and subscription price increases at The Wall Street Journal. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, average daily digital-only subscriptions at The Wall Street Journal increased 14% to 1.8 million as compared to the prior fiscal year, and digital revenues represented 55% of circulation revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. Revenues at the professional information business increased $13 million, or 3%, primarily driven by a $25 million increase in Risk and Compliance product revenues, partially offset by lower revenues for News Alerts and Data and Knowledge & Insight products and the negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations.

The following table summarizes average daily consumer subscriptions during the fourth quarter of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 for select publications and for all consumer subscription products.(a) See footnotes to the corresponding table in “Results of Operations—Fiscal 2020 versus Fiscal 2019—Segment Analysis—Dow Jones” above for more information.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________________

(a)Based on internal data for the period from April 1, 2019 to June 30, 2019, with independent assurance over global total sales and subscriptions provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP UK. 

Advertising revenues

Advertising revenues decreased $12 million, or 3%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018, primarily driven by the $20 million decline in print advertising revenue driven by weakness in the print advertising market, partially offset by the $8 million increase in digital advertising revenue, which represented 40% of advertising revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.

Segment EBITDA

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, Segment EBITDA at the Dow Jones segment increased $15 million, or 8%, as compared to fiscal 2018.The increase was mainly due to the increase in revenues described above, partially offset by increased employee costs, sales and marketing costs and infrastructure costs.

53
News Media (34% and 40% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, revenues at the News Media segment decreased $212 million, or 6%, as compared to fiscal 2018. The revenue decrease was primarily due to lower advertising revenues of $177 million resulting mainly from weakness in the print advertising market, the $74 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations and lower revenues at News America Marketing of $61 million, partially offset by digital advertising growth, primarily in Australia. Circulation and subscription revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 decreased $45 million as compared to fiscal 2018 mainly due to the $54 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations and print volume declines, partially offset by cover and subscription price increases, digital subscriber growth and the impact of the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard in Australia. Other revenues increased $10 million as compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to the $38 million net benefit related to News UK’s exit from the partnership for Sun Bets in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, partially offset by the $19 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations and lower brand partnership revenues in the U.K. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue decrease of $147 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018. 

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, Segment EBITDA at the News Media segment decreased $22 million, or 11%, as compared to fiscal 2018. The decrease was primarily due to the lower revenues described above, partially offset by an increased contribution from News Corp Australia of $9 million, primarily due to lower newsprint, production and distribution costs and cost savings initiatives. 

News Corp Australia 

Revenues were $1,197 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, a decrease of $82 million, or 6%, as compared to fiscal 2018 revenues of $1,279 million. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue decrease of $99 million, or 7%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018. Advertising revenues decreased $65 million, primarily due to the $56 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations and the $52 million impact of weakness in the print advertising market, partially offset by the $26 million increase due to digital advertising growth and a $20 million increase from the acquisition of an integrated content marketing agency. Circulation and subscription revenues decreased $21 million primarily due to the $32 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations and print volume declines, partially offset by the impact of the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, cover price increases and digital subscriber growth. 

News UK 

Revenues were $1,032 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, a decrease of $44 million, or 4%, as compared to fiscal 2018 revenues of $1,076 million. The decrease was due in part to lower advertising revenues of $28 million, primarily due to weakness in the print advertising market and the $12 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations. Circulation and subscription revenues decreased $27 million, primarily due to single-copy volume declines, mainly at The Sun, and the $22 million negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations, partially offset by the impact of cover price increases across mastheads. The decrease was partially offset by higher Other revenues of $11 million, mainly due to the $38 million net benefit related to the exit from the partnership for Sun Bets in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, partially offset by lower brand partnership revenues. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue decrease of $40 million, or 4%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018. 

54
News America Marketing 

Revenues at News America Marketing were $895 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, a decrease of $61 million, or 6%, as compared to fiscal 2018 revenues of $956 million. The decrease was primarily related to $67 million of lower home delivered revenues, which include free-standing insert products, mainly due to lower volume.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Current Financial Condition

The Company’s principal source of liquidity is internally generated funds and cash and cash equivalents on hand. As of June 30, 2020, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents were $1.52 billion. The Company also has available borrowing capacity under the 2019 News Corp Credit Facility (as defined below) and certain other facilities, as described below, and expects to have access to the worldwide credit and capital markets, subject to market conditions, in order to issue additional debt if needed or desired. The Company currently expects these elements of liquidity will enable it to meet its liquidity needs for at least the next 12 months, including repayment of indebtedness. However, the Company will continue to review its liquidity needs in light of the business and economic impacts resulting from COVID-19 and has taken various steps to offset the impact of COVID-19, including reducing variable costs and implementing cost savings initiatives across its businesses as discussed above. Although the Company believes that its cash on hand and future cash from operations, together with its access to the credit and capital markets, will provide adequate resources to fund its operating and financing needs for at least the next 12 months, its access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms in the future will be affected by many factors, including: (i) the financial and operational performance of the Company and/or its operating subsidiaries, as applicable; (ii) the Company’s credit ratings and/or the credit rating of its operating subsidiaries, as applicable; (iii) the provisions of any relevant debt instruments, credit agreements, indentures and similar or associated documents; (iv) the liquidity of the overall credit and capital markets; and (v) the state of the economy. Some of these factors may be adversely impacted by COVID-19 and there can be no assurances that the Company will continue to have access to the credit and capital markets on acceptable terms. See Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further discussion.

As of June 30, 2020, the Company’s consolidated assets included $760 million in cash and cash equivalents that were held by its foreign subsidiaries. Of this amount, $153 million is cash not readily accessible by the Company as it is held by REA Group, a majority owned but separately listed public company. REA Group must declare a dividend in order for the Company to have access to its share of REA Group’s cash balance. The Company earns income outside the U.S., which is deemed to be permanently reinvested in certain foreign jurisdictions. The Company does not currently intend to repatriate these earnings. Should the Company require more capital in the U.S. than is generated by and/or available to its domestic operations, the Company could elect to transfer funds held in foreign jurisdictions. The transfer of funds from foreign jurisdictions may be cumbersome due to local regulations, foreign exchange controls and taxes. Additionally, the transfer of funds from foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates and higher cash paid for income taxes for the Company. 

The principal uses of cash that affect the Company’s liquidity position include the following: operational expenditures including employee costs and paper purchases; capital expenditures; income tax payments; investments in associated entities; acquisitions; and the repayment of debt and related interest. In addition to the acquisitions and dispositions disclosed elsewhere, the Company has evaluated, and expects to continue to evaluate, possible future acquisitions and dispositions of certain businesses. Such transactions may be material and may involve cash, the issuance of the Company’s securities or the assumption of indebtedness.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

In May 2013, the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board of Directors”) authorized the Company to repurchase up to an aggregate of $500 million of its Class A Common Stock. No stock repurchases were made during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019. Over the life of the program through August 3, 2020, the Company cumulatively repurchased approximately 5.2 million shares of Class A Common Stock for an aggregate cost of approximately $71 million. The remaining authorized amount under the stock repurchase program as of August 3, 2020 was approximately $429 million. All decisions regarding any future stock repurchases are at the sole discretion of a duly appointed committee of the Board of Directors and management. The committee’s decisions regarding future stock repurchases will be evaluated from time to time in light of many factors, including the Company’s financial condition, earnings, capital requirements and debt facility covenants, other contractual restrictions, as well as legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, market volatility and other factors that the committee may deem relevant. The stock repurchase authorization may be modified, extended, suspended or discontinued at any time by the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors cannot provide any assurances that any additional shares will be repurchased.

The Company did not purchase any of its Class B Common Stock during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019.

55
Dividends

The following table summarizes the dividends declared and paid per share on both the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to stockholders, if any, is within the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors. The Board of Directors’ decisions regarding the payment of future dividends will depend on many factors, including the Company’s financial condition, earnings, capital requirements and debt facility covenants, other contractual restrictions, as well as legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, market volatility and other factors that the Board of Directors deems relevant.

Sources and Uses of Cash—Fiscal 2020 versus Fiscal 2019

Net cash provided by operating activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 was as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $148 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019. The decrease was primarily due to lower Total Segment EBITDA and lower cash distributions received from affiliates of $25 million, partially offset by lower cash taxes paid of $45 million.

Net cash used in investing activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 was as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash used in investing activities was $427 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $677 million for fiscal 2019. 

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, the Company used $438 million of cash for capital expenditures, of which $195 million related to Foxtel. The Company’s capital expenditures for fiscal 2021 are expected to be approximately $400 million, subject to foreign currency fluctuations. 

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, the Company used $188 million of cash for acquisitions, primarily for the acquisition of Opcity, and had capital expenditures of $572 million, of which $302 million related to Foxtel. The net cash used in investing activities for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 was partially offset by proceeds from the sale of businesses and other assets.

Net cash used in financing activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 was as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company had net cash used in financing activities of $472 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $610 million for fiscal 2019. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, the Company repaid $1,226 million of borrowings related to Foxtel and REA Group, which includes repayments made as part of the debt refinancings completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, and made dividend payments of $158 million to News Corporation stockholders and REA Group minority stockholders. The net cash used in financing activities for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 was partially offset by new borrowings related to Foxtel and REA Group of $926 million, which includes drawdowns under the new facilities entered into as part of the debt refinancings referenced above, and the net settlement of hedges of $57 million. See Note 9—Borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, the Company repaid $1,116 million of borrowings related to Foxtel and REA Group, and made dividend payments of $161 million to News Corporation stockholders and REA Group minority stockholders. The net cash used in financing activities for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 was partially offset by new borrowings of $681 million.

56
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow Available to News Corporation

Free cash flow available to News Corporation is a non-GAAP financial measure defined as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures (“free cash flow”), less REA Group free cash flow, plus cash dividends received from REA Group. Free cash flow available to News Corporation should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, cash flows from operations and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Free cash flow available to News Corporation may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies, since companies and investors may differ as to what items should be included in the calculation of free cash flow.

The Company considers free cash flow available to News Corporation to provide useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash that is available to be used to strengthen the Company’s balance sheet and for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the Company’s business, strategic acquisitions, dividend payouts and repurchasing stock. The Company believes excluding REA Group’s free cash flow and including dividends received from REA Group provides users of its consolidated financial statements with a measure of the amount of cash flow that is readily available to the Company, as REA Group is a separately listed public company in Australia and must declare a dividend in order for the Company to have access to its share of REA Group’s cash balance. The Company believes free cash flow available to News Corporation provides a more conservative view of the Company’s free cash flow because this presentation includes only that amount of cash the Company actually receives from REA Group, which has generally been lower than the Company’s unadjusted free cash flow.

A limitation of free cash flow available to News Corporation is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period. Management compensates for the limitation of free cash flow available to News Corporation by also relying on the net change in cash and cash equivalents as presented in the Statements of Cash Flows prepared in accordance with GAAP which incorporate all cash movements during the period.

The following table presents a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow available to News Corporation:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Free cash flow available to News Corporation decreased $33 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 to $180 million from $213 million in fiscal 2019, primarily due to lower cash provided by operating activities as discussed above, partially offset by lower capital expenditures.

Borrowings

As of June 30, 2020, the Company had total borrowings of $1.26 billion, including the current portion. The Company’s borrowings as of such date consist of (i) $976 million of outstanding debt incurred by certain subsidiaries of NXE Australia Pty Limited ("Foxtel" and together with such subsidiaries, the “Foxtel Debt Group”) and (ii) $165 million of outstanding debt incurred by REA Group and certain of its subsidiaries (REA Group and certain of its subsidiaries, the "REA Debt Group"). Both Foxtel and REA Group are consolidated but non wholly-owned subsidiaries of News Corp, and their indebtedness is only guaranteed by members of the Foxtel Debt Group and REA Debt Group, respectively, and is non-recourse to News Corp.

Foxtel Group Borrowings

In November 2019, the Foxtel Debt Group completed a debt refinancing in which it repaid its then existing credit facilities with the proceeds from a new A$610 million revolving credit facility maturing in November 2022 (the “2019 Credit Facility”), a new A$250 million term loan facility maturing in November 2024 (the “2019 Term Loan Facility”) and the new A$200 million shareholder loan referenced below. In addition, the Foxtel Debt Group amended its 2017 Working Capital Facility which, among other things, extended the remaining term to three years, decreased the capacity under the facility from A$100 million to A$40 million and increased the applicable margin. The Foxtel Debt Group indebtedness also includes U.S. private placement senior unsecured notes with maturities ranging from fiscal 2023 to 2025. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, the Foxtel Debt 

57
Group had repayments of approximately $1.0 billion, including the repayment of $150 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes maturing in July 2019, $75 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes maturing in September 2019 and, in connection with the refinancing discussed above, the repayment of its outstanding borrowings under its A$200 million credit facility maturing in January 2020, its A$400 million credit facility maturing in July 2020, its A$400 million credit facility maturing in September 2021 and its 2017 Working Capital Facility. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, the Foxtel Debt Group had borrowings of approximately $809 million, including the full drawdown of amounts available under the 2019 Term Loan Facility. As of June 30, 2020, the Foxtel Debt Group had total undrawn commitments of A$102 million under the 2017 Working Capital Facility and the 2019 Credit Facility, for which it pays a commitment fee of 45% of the applicable margin. The Company previously provided the Foxtel Debt Group with A$500 million of shareholder loans in fiscal 2019, as described below, and provided an additional A$400 million of shareholder loans and facilities in fiscal 2020. The shareholder loans bear interest at a variable rate of the Australian BBSY plus an applicable margin ranging from 6.30% to 7.75% and mature in December 2027. The shareholder revolving credit facility bears interest at a variable rate of the Australian BBSY plus an applicable margin ranging from 2.00% to 3.75%, depending on the Foxtel Debt Group’s net leverage ratio, and matures in July 2024. Additionally, in February 2020, the Foxtel Debt Group entered into an A$170 million subordinated shareholder loan facility agreement with Telstra which can be used to finance cable transmission costs due to Telstra. The shareholder loan bears interest at a variable rate of the Australian BBSY plus an applicable margin of 7.75% and matures in December 2027. The Company excluded the $11 million utilization of the Telstra facility for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 from the Statement of Cash Flows because it is non-cash.

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, the Foxtel Debt Group had repayments of $1.03 billion, including the repayment of its A$300 million facility maturing in April 2019 and the repayment of its A$200 million facility maturing in May 2019, and borrowings of $681 million. The repayments of the A$300 million facility maturing in April 2019 and the A$200 million facility maturing in May 2019 were repaid using A$500 million of shareholder loans provided by the Company.

REA Group Borrowings

During the second quarter of fiscal 2020, REA Group completed a debt refinancing in which it repaid the final A$240 million tranche of its A$480 million revolving loan facility with the proceeds of a new A$170 million unsecured syndicated revolving loan facility maturing in December 2021 (the “2019 REA Group Credit Facility”) and cash on hand. As of June 30, 2020, REA Group had drawn down the full A$170 million available under the 2019 REA Group Credit Facility.

In April 2020, REA Group entered into a new A$148.5 million working capital facility and an A$20 million overdraft facility. Refer to Note 9—Borrowings for further discussion. 

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, REA Group repaid A$120 million for its unsecured loan facility due December 2018.

News Corp Revolving Credit Facility

In December 2019, the Company terminated its existing unsecured $650 million revolving credit facility and entered into a new credit agreement (the “2019 Credit Agreement”) which provides for an unsecured $750 million revolving credit facility (the “2019 News Corp Credit Facility”) that can be used for general corporate purposes. The 2019 News Corp Credit Facility has a sublimit of $100 million available for issuances of letters of credit. Under the 2019 Credit Agreement, the Company may request increases in the amount of the facility up to a maximum amount of $1 billion. The lenders’ commitments to make the 2019 News Corp Credit Facility available terminate on December 12, 2024, and the Company may request that the commitments be extended under certain circumstances for up to two additional one-year periods. As of June 30, 2020, the Company has not borrowed any funds under the 2019 News Corp Credit Facility.

All of the Company’s borrowings contain customary representations, covenants and events of default. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants at June 30, 2020.

See Note 9—Borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding the Company’s outstanding debt, including certain information about interest rates and maturities related to such debt arrangements.

Commitments

The Company has commitments under certain firm contractual arrangements (“firm commitments”) to make future payments. These firm commitments secure the future rights to various assets and services to be used in the normal course of operations.

58
The following table summarizes the Company’s material firm commitments as of June 30, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________________

(a)The Company has commitments under purchase obligations related to minimum subscriber guarantees for license fees, printing contracts, capital projects, marketing agreements, production services and other legally binding commitments.

(b)The Company has sports programming rights commitments with the National Rugby League, Australian Football League, Cricket Australia, domestic football league and Australian Rugby Union as well as certain other broadcast rights which are payable through fiscal 2028. During June 2020, the Company amended and extended its sports programming rights agreement with the National Rugby League to license certain media rights through fiscal 2028 for approximately A$1.5 billion.

(c)The Company has programming rights commitments with various suppliers for programming content.

(d)The Company leases office facilities, warehouse facilities, printing plants, satellite services and equipment. These leases, which are classified as operating leases, are expected to be paid at certain dates through fiscal 2048. This amount includes approximately $13 million of office facilities that have been subleased from Fox Corporation. Amounts reflected represent only the Company’s lease obligations for which it has firm commitments. 

(e)The Company has contractual commitments for satellite transmission services. The Company’s satellite transponder services arrangements extend through fiscal 2032 and are accounted for as operating or finance leases, based on the underlying terms of those arrangements.

(f)See Note 9—Borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

(g)Reflects the Company’s expected future interest payments on borrowings outstanding and interest rates applicable at June 30, 2020. Such rates are subject to change in future periods. See Note 9—Borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Company has certain contracts to purchase newsprint, ink and plates that require the Company to purchase a percentage of its total requirements for production. Since the quantities purchased annually under these contracts are not fixed and are based on the Company’s total requirements, the amount of the related payments for these purchases is excluded from the table above.

The table also excludes the Company’s pension obligations, other postretirement benefits (“OPEB”) obligations and the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount and timing of the commitments. The Company made contributions of $30 million and $16 million to its pension plans in fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, respectively. Future plan contributions are dependent upon actual plan asset returns and interest rates and statutory requirements. The Company anticipates that it will make contributions of approximately $22 million in fiscal 2021, assuming that actual plan asset returns are consistent with the Company’s expected returns in fiscal 2020 and beyond, and that interest rates remain constant. The Company will continue to make voluntary contributions as necessary to improve the funded status of the plans. Payments due to participants under the Company’s pension plans are primarily paid out of underlying trusts. Payments due under the Company’s OPEB plans are not required to be funded in advance, but are paid as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations, and are principally dependent upon the future cost of retiree medical benefits under the Company’s OPEB plans. The Company expects its OPEB payments to approximate $9 million in fiscal 2021. See Note 18—Retirement Benefit Obligations in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

59
Contingencies

The Company routinely is involved in various legal proceedings, claims and governmental inspections or investigations, including those discussed in Note 17—Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. The outcome of these matters and claims is subject to significant uncertainty, and the Company often cannot predict what the eventual outcome of pending matters will be or the timing of the ultimate resolution of these matters. Fees, expenses, fines, penalties, judgments or settlement costs which might be incurred by the Company in connection with the various proceedings could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition.

The Company establishes an accrued liability for legal claims when it determines that a loss is both probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Once established, accruals are adjusted from time to time, as appropriate, in light of additional information. The amount of any loss ultimately incurred in relation to matters for which an accrual has been established may be higher or lower than the amounts accrued for such matters. Legal fees associated with litigation and similar proceedings are expensed as incurred. The Company recognizes gain contingencies when the gain becomes realized or realizable. See Note 17—Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Company’s tax returns are subject to on-going review and examination by various tax authorities. Tax authorities may not agree with the treatment of items reported in the Company’s tax returns, and therefore the outcome of tax reviews and examinations can be unpredictable. The Company believes it has appropriately accrued for the expected outcome of uncertain tax matters and believes such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid. However, these liabilities may need to be adjusted as new information becomes known and as tax examinations continue to progress, or as settlements or litigations occur.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it is important to the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and if it requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. The development and selection of these critical accounting policies have been determined by management of the Company. See Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

Long-lived assets

The Company’s long-lived assets include goodwill, finite-lived and indefinite-lived intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. Assets acquired in business combinations are recorded at their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is recorded as the difference between the cost of acquiring an entity and the estimated fair values assigned to its tangible and identifiable intangible net assets and is assigned to one or more reporting units for purposes of testing for impairment.

Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires management’s judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives and market multiples, among other items. Identifying reporting units and assigning goodwill to them requires judgment involving the aggregation of business units with similar economic characteristics and the identification of existing business units that benefit from the acquired goodwill. The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of long-lived assets acquired, their reporting unit, as well as their useful lives can significantly impact net income. The Company allocates goodwill to disposed businesses using the relative fair value method.

Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets

The Company tests goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth quarter and at other times if a significant event or change in circumstances indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of these assets has been reduced below their carrying value. The Company uses its judgment in assessing whether assets may have become impaired between annual impairment assessments. Indicators such as unexpected adverse economic factors, unanticipated technological change or competitive activities, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts, may signal that an asset has become impaired.

Under ASC 350, in assessing goodwill for impairment, the Company has the option to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether events or circumstances exist that lead to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If the Company determines that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the Company is not required to perform any additional tests in assessing goodwill 

60
for impairment. However, if the Company concludes otherwise or elects not to perform the qualitative assessment, then it is required to perform a quantitative analysis to determine the fair value of the business, and compare the calculated fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. The Company determines the fair value of a reporting unit primarily by using both a discounted cash flow analysis and market-based valuation approach.

Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgments, including judgments about appropriate discount rates, long-term growth rates, relevant comparable company earnings multiples and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, as part of the Company’s long-range planning process, the Company completed its annual goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test.

The performance of the Company’s annual impairment analysis in fiscal 2020 resulted in $89 million of impairments to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets within the News Media segment. The fair values of the Company’s reporting units in fiscal 2020 exceeded the respective carrying values in a range from approximately 0.0% to 53.0%. Significant unobservable inputs utilized in the income approach valuation method were discount rates (ranging from 9.0% to 22.5%), long-term growth rates (ranging from 0.0% to 3.0%) and royalty rates (ranging from 0.25%-6.0%). Significant unobservable inputs utilized in the market approach valuation method were EBITDA multiples from guideline public companies operating in similar industries and control premiums (ranging from 5.0%-10.0%). Significant increases (decreases) in royalty rates, growth rates, control premiums and multiples, assuming no change in discount rates, would result in a significantly higher (lower) fair value measurement. Significant decreases (increases) in discount rates, assuming no changes in royalty rates, growth rates, control premiums and multiples, would result in a significantly higher (lower) fair value measurement.

As of June 30, 2020, the Subscription Video Services and News Media segments had reporting units with goodwill of approximately $908 million that is at-risk for future impairment, of which $807 million relates to the Subscription Video Services segment and $101 million relates to the News Media segment. After the write-down of goodwill resulting from the fiscal 2020 annual and interim impairment tests, the fair values of these reporting units with goodwill at risk equaled their respective carrying values. Significant unobservable inputs utilized in the income approach valuation method for at-risk reporting units were discount rates (ranging from 10.5% to 13.0%) and long-term growth rates (ranging from 0.0% to 2.5%). Significant unobservable inputs utilized in the market approach valuation method for at-risk reporting units were EBITDA multiples from guideline public companies operating in similar industries and a control premium of 5.0% to 10.0%. Any increase in the discount rate or decrease in the projected cash flows terminal growth rate would have resulted in further impairment in certain reporting units of the Subscription Video Services and News Media segments. The Company will continue to monitor its goodwill for possible future impairment.

Property, Plant and Equipment

The Company evaluates the carrying value of property, plant and equipment for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset group may not be recoverable, in accordance with ASC 360, “Property, Plant, and Equipment” (“ASC 360”). An asset group is the lowest level of assets and liabilities for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. Events or circumstances that might warrant an impairment recoverability review include, among other things, material declines in operating performance, significant adverse market conditions and planned changes in the use of an asset group.

In determining whether the carrying value of an asset group is recoverable, the Company estimates undiscounted future cash flows over the estimated life of the primary asset of the asset group. The estimates of such future cash flows require estimating such factors as future operating performance, market conditions and the estimated holding period of each asset. If all or a portion of the carrying value of an asset group is found to be non-recoverable, the Company records an impairment charge equal to the difference between the asset group’s carrying value and its fair value. The Company generally measures fair value by considering sales prices for similar assets or by discounting estimated future cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. Typical assumptions applied when using a market-based approach include projected EBITDA and related multiples. Typical assumptions applied when using an income approach include projected free cash flows, discount rates and long-term growth rates. All of these assumptions are made by management based on the best available information at the time of the estimates and are subject to deviations from actual results. As a result of the long range planning process and the short term impact of COVID-19, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges to its property, plant and equipment of $148 million and $55 million at its U.K. newspapers and Australian newspapers reporting units, respectively, in fiscal 2020. Significant unobservable inputs utilized in the income approach valuation method for News UK were a discount rate of 9.5% and a long-term growth rate of (1.0)% and for News Corp Australia were a discount rate of 11.5% and a 0.0% long term growth rate. Refer to Note 7—Property, Plant and Equipment. 

61
Programming Costs

Costs incurred in acquiring program rights are accounted for in accordance with ASC 920, “Entertainment—Broadcasters.” Program rights and the related liabilities are recorded at the gross amount of the liabilities when the license period has begun, the cost of the program is determinable and the program is accepted and available for airing. Programming costs are amortized based on the expected pattern of consumption over the license period or expected useful life of each program. The pattern of consumption is based primarily on consumer viewership information as well as other factors. If initial airings are expected to generate higher viewership, an accelerated method of amortization is used. The Company monitors its programming amortization policy on an ongoing basis and any impact arising from changes to the policy would be recognized prospectively. The Company regularly reviews its programming assets to ensure they continue to reflect net realizable value. Changes in circumstances may result in a write-down of the asset to fair value. The Company has single and multi-year contracts for broadcast rights of sporting events. The costs of sports contracts are primarily charged to expense over the respective season as events are aired. For sports contracts with dedicated channels, the Company amortizes the sports programming rights costs over 12 months.

While the Company has concluded discussions with various sports leagues regarding the scheduling of sports events and cost concessions and a number of sports have resumed play, any future postponement of sports events for which the Company has broadcast rights will cause a deferral of the recognition of the associated programming amortization expense for the period in which no live games are being played.

Income Taxes

The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions in which it operates and records its tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences in its reported results of operations. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s tax expense and in evaluating its tax positions including evaluating uncertainties as promulgated under ASC 740, “Income Taxes.”

The Company’s annual tax rate is based primarily on its geographic income and statutory tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant management judgment is required in determining the Company’s provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and the valuation allowance recorded against the Company’s net deferred tax assets, if any. In assessing the likelihood of realization of deferred tax assets, management considers estimates of the amount and character of future taxable income. The Company’s actual effective tax rate and income tax expense could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, tax planning and the Company’s forecasted financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Although the Company believes current estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates.

The Company recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Significant management judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management re-evaluates tax positions each period in which new information about recognition or measurement becomes available. The Company’s policy is to recognize, when applicable, interest and penalties on unrecognized income tax benefits as part of Income tax (expense) benefit.

Retirement Benefit Obligations

The Company’s employees participate in various defined benefit pension and postretirement plans sponsored by the Company and its subsidiaries. See Note 18—Retirement Benefit Obligations in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Company records amounts relating to its pension and other postretirement benefit plans based on calculations specified by GAAP. The measurement and recognition of the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans require the use of significant management judgments, including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, mortality and other actuarial assumptions. Net periodic benefit costs (income) is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including a discount rate for plan obligations, an expected rate of return on plan assets and mortality rates. Current market conditions, including changes in investment returns and interest rates, were considered in making these assumptions. In developing the expected long-term rate of return, the pension portfolio’s past average rate of returns, and future return expectations of the various asset classes were considered. The weighted average expected long-term rate of return of 3.7% for fiscal 2021 is based on a weighted average target asset allocation assumption of 20% equities, 71% fixed-income securities and 9% cash and other investments.

62
The Company recorded $7 million and $(2) million in net periodic benefit costs (income) in the Statements of Operations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The Company utilizes the full yield-curve approach to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit costs for its pension and other postretirement benefit plans.

Although the discount rate used for each plan will be established and applied individually, a weighted average discount rate of 2.0% will be used in calculating the fiscal 2021 net periodic benefit costs (income). The discount rate reflects the market rate for high-quality fixed-income investments on the Company’s annual measurement date of June 30 and is subject to change each fiscal year. The discount rate assumptions used to account for pension and other postretirement benefit plans reflect the rates at which the benefit obligations could be effectively settled. The rate was determined by matching the Company’s expected benefit payments for the plans to a hypothetical yield curve developed using a portfolio of several hundred high-quality non-callable corporate bonds. The weighted average discount rate is volatile from year to year because it is determined based upon the prevailing rates in the U.S., the U.K., Australia and other foreign countries as of the measurement date.

The key assumptions used in developing the Company’s fiscal 2020 and 2019 net periodic benefit costs (income) for its plans consist of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company will use a weighted average long-term rate of return of 3.7% for fiscal 2021 based principally on a combination of current asset mix and an expectation of future long term investment returns. The accumulated net pre-tax losses on the Company’s pension plans as of June 30, 2020 were approximately $529 million which increased from approximately $484 million for the Company’s pension plans as of June 30, 2019. This increase of $45 million was primarily due to decreased discount rates. Lower discount rates increase present values of benefit obligations and increase the Company’s deferred losses and also increase subsequent-year benefit costs. Higher discount rates decrease the present values of benefit obligations and reduce the Company’s accumulated net loss and have a minimal impact on benefit costs. These deferred losses are being systematically recognized in future net periodic benefit costs (income) in accordance with ASC 715, “Compensation—Retirement Benefits.” Unrecognized losses for the primary plans in excess of 10% of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or the plan’s projected benefit obligation are recognized over the average life expectancy for plan participants for the primary plans.

The Company made contributions of $30 million and $16 million to its funded pension plans in fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. Future plan contributions are dependent upon actual plan asset returns, statutory requirements and interest rate movements. Assuming that actual plan returns are consistent with the Company’s expected plan returns in fiscal 2020 and beyond, and that interest rates remain constant, the Company anticipates that it will make contributions of approximately $22 million in fiscal 2021. The Company will continue to make voluntary contributions as necessary to improve the funded status of the plans. See Note 19—Other Postretirement Benefits in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

Changes in net periodic benefit costs may occur in the future due to changes in the Company’s expected rate of return on plan assets and discount rate resulting from economic events. The following table highlights the sensitivity of the Company’s pension obligations and expense to changes in these assumptions, assuming all other assumptions remain constant:

63
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK