ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

Pitney Bowes Inc. (we, us, our, or the company) is a global technology company providing commerce solutions that power billions of transactions. Clients around the world rely on the accuracy and precision delivered by our solutions, analytics, and application programming interface (API) technology in the areas of ecommerce fulfillment, shipping and returns, cross-border ecommerce, office mailing and shipping, presort services and financing. Pitney Bowes Inc. was incorporated in the state of Delaware in 1920. For more information about us, our products, services and solutions, visit www.pitneybowes.com.

Business Segments

Commerce Services

The Commerce Services group includes domestic delivery, return and fulfillment services, cross-border solutions, shipping solutions and presort services. The Commerce Services group includes the Global Ecommerce and Presort Services segments. 

Global Ecommerce 

Domestic parcel services combine proprietary label technology for returns and a delivery network with cost-effective last-mile delivery to process over 125 million parcels annually. We operate 15 domestic parcel sortation centers connected by a nationwide transportation network, enabling us to pick up parcels from retailer distribution centers and move them through our physical network. We also operate four fulfillment centers, providing pick, pack and ship services for retailers. These centers are located within our parcel sortation centers to facilitate same-day entry into our parcel delivery network. 

Cross-border solutions manages all aspects of the international shopping and shipping experience. Our proprietary technology enables global tracking and logistics services; calculates duty, tax and shipping costs at checkout; enables multi-currency pricing, payment processing and fraud management; ensures compliance with product restrictions and produces all documentation requirements to meet export complexities and customs clearance. Our proprietary technology is utilized by direct merchants and major online marketplaces facilitating millions of parcels to be shipped worldwide. 

Shipping solutions enable clients to reduce transportation and logistics costs, select the best carrier based on need and cost, improve delivery times and track packages in real-time. Powered by our shipping APIs, an integral part of the Pitney Bowes Commerce Cloud, clients can purchase postage, print shipping labels and access shipping and tracking services that can be easily integrated into any web application such as online shopping carts or ecommerce sites and provide guaranteed delivery times and flexible payment options. 

Presort Services

We are a workshare partner of the USPS and national outsource provider of mail sortation services that allow clients to qualify large volumes of First-Class Mail, Marketing Mail and Bound and Packet Mail (Standard Flats and Bound Printed Matter) for postal workshare discounts. In 2019, we processed a record 17 billion pieces of mail through our network of operating centers throughout the United States. Our Presort Services network and fully-customized proprietary technology provides clients with end-to-end solutions from pick up at their location to delivery into the postal system network, expedited mail delivery and optimal postage savings. 

Sending Technology Solutions

We offer our clients sending technology solutions for physical and digital mailing, shipping, supplies and other applications to help simplify and save on the sending, tracking and receiving of letters and packages. Our cloud enabled infrastructure provides software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings delivered online and via connected or mobile devices. Our latest offerings are designed on an open platform architecture that has the capabilities to leverage partnerships with other innovative companies and developers to deliver new value to our clients. 

We offer a variety of solutions that enable clients to finance equipment and product purchases, make rental and lease payments, replenish postage and purchase supplies. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, The Pitney Bowes Bank (the Bank), we offer a revolving credit solution in the United States that enables clients to make meter rental payments and purchase postage, services and supplies. The Bank also provides an interest-bearing deposit solution to clients who prefer to prepay postage. We also provide similar revolving credit solutions to clients in Canada and the U.K. but not through the Bank. In the United States, we also offer a variety of financing alternatives that enable businesses and organizations to finance or lease other manufacturers’ equipment to meet their needs. 

We establish credit approval limits and procedures based on the credit quality of the client and the type of product or service provided to control risk in extending credit to clients. We closely monitor the portfolio by analyzing industry sectors and delinquency trends by product line, industry and client to ensure reserve levels and credit policies reflect current trends. Management continuously monitors credit lines and collection resources and revises credit policies as necessary to be more selective in managing the portfolio.

4

We provide call-center, online and on-site support services for our products and solutions. Support services are primarily provided under maintenance contracts.

Seasonality

As shipping continues to become a bigger part of our business, a larger percentage of our revenue and earnings are earned in the fourth quarter relative to the other quarters, driven primarily by the holiday season. 

Sales and Marketing

We market our products, solutions and services through a direct and inside sales force, global and regional partner channels, direct mailings and web-based offerings. 

Competition

Our businesses face competition from a number of companies. Our competitors range from large, multinational companies to smaller, more narrowly focused regional and local firms. We compete on the basis of technology and innovation, breadth of product offerings, our ability to design and tailor solutions to specific client needs, performance, client service and support, price, quality and brand.

We must continue to invest in our current technologies, products and solutions, and in the development of new technologies, products and solutions in order to maintain and improve our competitive position. We will encounter new competitors as we transition to higher value markets and offerings and enter new markets.

A summary of the competitive environment for each of our business segments is as follows:

Global Ecommerce

The domestic and cross-border parcel services and solutions market includes competitors of various sizes, including companies with greater financial resources than us. Some of these competitors specialize in point solutions or freight forwarding services, are full-service ecommerce business process outsourcers and online marketplaces with international logistic support, or major global delivery services companies. We also face competition from companies that can offer both domestic and cross-border solutions in a single package which creates pricing leverage. The principal competitive factors include speed of delivery, reliability, functionality, ease of integration and use, scalability, innovation, support services and price. We compete based on the accuracy, reliability and scalability of our platform and logistics services, our ability to provide clients and their customers a one-stop full-service ecommerce experience and the ability to provide a more customized shipping solution than some of the larger competitors in the industry. 

Within shipping solutions, we compete with a wide range of technology providers who help make shipping easier and more cost-effective. These technology providers range from large, established companies to smaller companies offering negotiated carrier rates (primarily with the USPS). The principal competitive factors include technology stability and reliability, innovation, access to preferred shipping rates and ease of integration with existing systems.

Presort Services

We face competition from regional and local presort providers, cooperatives of multiple local presort providers, consolidators and service bureaus that offer presort solutions as part of a larger bundle of outsourcing services. While not necessarily competitors in the traditional sense, large mail owners have the capability to presort their own mailings in-house. The principal competitive factors include innovative service, delivery speed, tracking and reporting, industry expertise and economies of scale. Our competitive advantages include our extensive network of presort facilities capable of processing significant volumes and our innovative proprietary technology that provides clients with reliable, secure and precise services and maximum postage discounts. 

Sending Technology Solutions

We face competition from other mail equipment and solutions providers, companies that offer products and services as alternative means of message communications and those that offer on-line shipping and mailing products and services solutions. Additionally, as competitive alternative communication methods in comparison to mail grow, our operations could be affected. We differentiate ourselves from our competitors through our breadth of physical and digital offerings, including cloud enabled SaaS and open platform architecture offerings; pricing; available financing and payment offerings; product reliability; support services; and our extensive knowledge of the shipping and mailing industry. 

Our financing operations face competition, in varying degrees, from large, diversified financial institutions, including leasing companies, commercial finance companies and commercial banks, as well as small, specialized firms. Not all our competitors are able to offer the same or similar financing and payment solutions that we offer and we believe this is a source of competitive advantage that differentiates 

5

us from our competitors. The Bank is chartered as an Industrial Bank under the laws of the State of Utah, and is regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions.

Research, Development and Intellectual Property

We invest in research and development activities to develop new products and solutions, enhance the effectiveness and functionality of existing products and solutions and deliver high value technology and differentiated services in high value segments of the market. 

Third-party Suppliers

We depend on third-party suppliers and outsource providers for a variety of services and product components, the hosting of our SaaS offerings, the logistics portion of our ecommerce business, and some non-core functions and operations. In certain instances, we rely on single-sourced or limited-sourced suppliers and outsourcing vendors around the world because doing so is advantageous due to quality, price or lack of alternative sources. We believe that our available sources for services, components, supplies and manufacturing are adequate. 

Regulatory Matters 

We are subject to the regulations of postal authorities worldwide related to product specifications of our postage meters. Our Presort Services business is also subject to regulations of the USPS. The Bank and certain company affiliates that provide services to the Bank are subject to the regulations of the Utah Department of Financial Institutions and the FDIC. We are also subject to transportation, customs and trade regulations worldwide related to our cross-border shipping services and regulations concerning data privacy and security for our businesses that use, process and store certain personal, confidential or proprietary data. 

Employees and Employee Relations 

At December 31, 2019, we have approximately 11,000 employees worldwide. We believe that we maintain strong relationships with our employees. Management keeps employees informed of decisions and encourages and implements employee suggestions whenever practicable.

Available Information

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), are available, free of charge, through the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investorrelations.pitneybowes.com or from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The other information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. 

6

Information About Our Executive Officers

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

There are no family relationships among the above officers. All of the officers have served in various executive positions with the company for at least the past five years except as described below:

Mr. Dies was appointed to the office of Executive Vice President and President, Sending Technology Solutions in October 2017. He joined the company in 2015 as President, Document Messaging Technologies (DMT). Prior to joining the company, Mr. Dies was employed at IBM where he held several leadership positions in North America, Europe, and Asia across diverse business units.

Ms. Snyder was appointed to the office of Executive Vice President and President, Commerce Services in January 2016. She joined the company in November 2013 as President, DMT and became President, Global Ecommerce in June 2015. Prior to joining Pitney Bowes, Ms. Snyder was a Partner at McKinsey & Company, Inc. In her 15 years at McKinsey, she focused on serving clients in the technology, media and communications sectors and was the leader of McKinsey's Stamford office. 

Mr. Sutula joined the company as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in February 2017. Prior to joining the company, Mr. Sutula was employed at IBM for 28 years where he held several leadership positions in the United States and Europe. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS