ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A)

This combined MD&A is separately filed by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG), Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G) and PSEG Power LLC (PSEG Power). Information contained herein relating to any individual company is filed by such company on its own behalf. PSE&G and PSEG Power each make representations only as to itself and make no representations whatsoever as to any other company.

PSEG’s business consists of two reportable segments, our principal direct wholly owned subsidiaries, which are:

•PSE&G—which is a public utility engaged principally in the transmission of electricity and distribution of electricity and natural gas in certain areas of New Jersey. PSE&G is subject to regulation by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU) and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). PSE&G also invests in regulated solar generation projects and energy efficiency and related programs in New Jersey, which are regulated by the BPU, and

•PSEG Power—which is a multi-regional energy supply company that integrates the operations of its merchant nuclear and fossil generating assets with its power marketing businesses and fuel supply functions through competitive energy sales in well-developed energy markets primarily in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic United States through its principal direct wholly owned subsidiaries. In addition, PSEG Power owns and operates solar generation in various states. PSEG Power’s subsidiaries are subject to regulation by FERC, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the states in which they operate.

PSEG’s other direct wholly owned subsidiaries are: PSEG Long Island LLC (PSEG LI), which operates the Long Island Power Authority’s (LIPA) transmission and distribution (T&D) system under an Operations Services Agreement; PSEG Energy Holdings L.L.C. (Energy Holdings), which primarily has investments in leveraged leases; and PSEG Services Corporation (Services), which provides certain management, administrative and general services to PSEG and its subsidiaries at cost.

Our business discussion in Item 1. Business provides a review of the regions and markets where we operate and compete, as well as our strategy for conducting our businesses within these markets, focusing on operational excellence, financial strength and making disciplined investments. Our risk factor discussion in Item 1A. Risk Factors provides information about factors that could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. The following discussion provides an overview of the significant events and business developments that have occurred during 2019 and key factors that we expect may drive our future performance. This discussion refers to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Statements) and the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Notes). This discussion should be read in conjunction with such Statements and Notes.

For a discussion of 2017 items and year-over-year comparisons of changes in our financial condition and results of operations as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 (2018 Annual Report) as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 27, 2019.

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW OF 2019 AND FUTURE OUTLOOK

Our business plan is designed to achieve growth while managing the risks associated with regulatory changes, fluctuating commodity prices and changes in customer demand. Over the past few years, our investments have altered our business mix to reflect a higher percentage of earnings contribution by PSE&G.

PSE&G

At PSE&G, our focus is on enhancing reliability and resiliency of our T&D system, meeting customer expectations and supporting public policy objectives by investing capital in T&D infrastructure and clean energy programs. For the five-year period ending December 31, 2024, PSE&G expects to invest between $11.5 billion to $15 billion, resulting in an expected compound annual rate base growth of 6.5% to 8%. These ranges are driven by certain unapproved investment programs, including the Clean Energy Future (CEF) and incremental reliability and resiliency investments anticipated in the 2024 timeframe that we intend to seek approval for under the third phase of existing infrastructure programs. See below for a description of the CEF program.

In 2019, we commenced our BPU-approved Gas System Modernization Program II (GSMP II), an expanded, five-year program to invest $1.9 billion beginning in 2019 to replace approximately 875 miles of cast iron and unprotected steel mains in addition to other improvements to the gas system. Approximately $1.6 billion will be recovered through periodic rate roll-ins, with the remaining $300 million to be recovered through a future base rate proceeding. As part of the settlement approved by the BPU, 

42
PSE&G agreed to file a base rate proceeding no later than December 2023, to maintain a base level of gas distribution capital expenditures of $155 million per year and to achieve certain leak reduction targets.

Also in 2019, the BPU approved our Energy Strong II Program, an $842 million program to harden, modernize and improve the resiliency of our electric and gas distribution systems. This program began in the fourth quarter of 2019 and is expected to be completed by the end of 2023. Approximately $692 million of the program will be recovered through periodic rate recovery filings, with the balance to be recovered in our next distribution base rate case, which is required to be filed no later than December 2023. 

In October 2018, we filed our proposed CEF program with the BPU, a six-year estimated $3.5 billion investment covering four programs; (i) an Energy Efficiency (EE) program totaling $2.5 billion of investment designed to achieve energy efficiency targets required under New Jersey’s Clean Energy law; (ii) an Electric Vehicle (EV) infrastructure program; (iii) an Energy Storage (ES) program and (iv) an Energy Cloud (EC) program which will include installing approximately two million electric smart meters and associated infrastructure. The BPU is reviewing the CEF-EE program concurrently with its efforts to complete a stakeholder process to define key terms and policy parameters regarding returns, amortization and lost revenue recovery related to implementing energy efficiency programs statewide. Additionally, the State released its Energy Master Plan in January 2020, which is supportive of energy efficiency but gives the BPU discretion in implementation between state-and utility-operated programs. In February 2020, PSE&G reached an agreement with parties in the CEF-EE matter which was approved by the BPU to (a) extend several existing EE programs for six months, with an additional $111 million investment over the course of the programs, and (b) extend the timeline for review of the CEF-EE filing through September 2020. In addition, the BPU has circulated to the parties procedural schedules for the proposed $1 billion investment in CEF-EC, CEF-EV and CEF-ES programs.

We also continue to invest in transmission infrastructure in order to (i) maintain and enhance system integrity and grid reliability, grid security and safety, (ii) address an aging transmission infrastructure, (iii) leverage technology to improve the operation of the system, (iv) reduce transmission constraints, (v) meet growing demand and (vi) meet environmental requirements and standards set by various regulatory bodies. Our planned capital spending for transmission in 2020-2022 is $2.8 billion.

PSEG Power

At PSEG Power, we strive to improve performance and reduce costs in order to optimize cash flow generation from our fleet in light of low wholesale power and gas prices, environmental considerations and competitive market forces that reward efficiency and reliability. PSEG Power continues to move its fleet toward improved efficiency and believes that its recently completed investment program enhances its competitive position with the addition of efficient, clean, reliable combined cycle gas turbine capacity. In 2019, our natural gas fleet generated 23 terawatt hours and our nuclear fleet achieved a capacity factor of 88.7%. Our commitments for load, such as basic generation service (BGS) in New Jersey and other bilateral supply contracts, are backed by this generation or may be combined with the use of physical commodity purchases and financial instruments from the market to optimize the economic efficiency of serving our obligations. PSEG Power’s hedging practices and ability to capitalize on market opportunities help it to balance some of the volatility of the merchant power business. More than 70% of PSEG Power’s expected gross margin in 2020 relates to hedging of our energy margin, our expected revenues from the capacity market mechanisms, Zero Emission Certificate (ZEC) revenues that commenced in April 2019 and certain ancillary service payments such as reactive power.

PSEG Power completed its 1,800 MW combined cycle gas turbine construction program with the addition of the Keys Energy Center (Keys) in Maryland and Sewaren 7 in New Jersey in 2018 and Bridgeport Harbor Station Unit 5 (BH5) in Connecticut in 2019. These additions to our fleet both expand our geographic diversity and adjust our fuel mix and enhance the environmental profile and overall efficiency of PSEG Power’s generation fleet. 

Operational Excellence

We emphasize operational performance while developing opportunities in both our competitive and regulated businesses. Flexibility in our generating fleet has allowed us to take advantage of opportunities in a rapidly evolving market as we remain diligent in managing costs. In 2019, our

•utility continued its efforts to control costs while maintaining strong operational performance, including being recognized by PA Consulting as the most reliable electric utility in the Mid-Atlantic region for the 18th consecutive year, and

•our efficient combined cycle gas units benefited our capacity factor across the natural gas fleet and were readily available to operate when needed, all while diligently adhering to our cost control programs.

43
Financial Strength

Our financial strength is predicated on a solid balance sheet, positive operating cash flow and reasonable risk-adjusted returns on increased investment. Our financial position remained strong during 2019 as we

•maintained sufficient liquidity,

•maintained solid investment grade credit ratings, and[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We expect to be able to fund our planned capital requirements, as described in Liquidity and Capital Resources, and the impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Tax Act) without the issuance of new equity. For additional information on the impacts of the Tax Act, see Item 8. Note 7. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities and Note 22. Income Taxes. 

Financial Results

As a result of the settlement of PSE&G’s distribution base rate proceeding in 2018, PSE&G’s overall 2019 annual revenues were reduced by approximately $13 million, comprised of a $212 million increase in base revenues, including recovery of deferred storm costs, offset by the return of tax benefits of approximately $225 million. The tax benefits include the flowback to customers in 2019 of excess accumulated deferred income taxes resulting from the reduction of the federal income tax rates provided in the Tax Act as well as the flowback of accumulated deferred income taxes from previously realized tax repair deductions and tax benefits from future tax repair deductions as realized. 

PSE&G also filed a revised 2019 Transmission Formula Rate Annual Update to include the refund of the approved excess deferred income tax benefits. The revised 2019 Annual Transmission Formula Rate, as filed with FERC in January 2019, decreased overall annual transmission revenues by approximately $54 million, and was offset by estimated true-up adjustments, resulting in a net decrease in 2019 transmission revenues of $19 million. PSE&G will file a final true-up to the 2019 Annual Transmission Formula Rate Update in the second quarter of 2020.

The financial results for PSEG, PSE&G and PSEG Power for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are presented as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our 2019 over 2018 increase in Net Income was due primarily to higher earnings from distribution rate relief and transmission and distribution investments at PSE&G, MTM and Nuclear Decommissioning Trust (NDT) Fund gains in 2019 as compared to losses in the prior year and ZEC revenues in 2019 at PSEG Power, and pension credits resulting from retiree medical plan benefit changes in 2019. These increases were partially offset by a loss on the sale in 2019 of PSEG Power’s ownership interests in two fossil plants. For a more detailed discussion of our financial results, see Results of Operations. 

The greater emphasis on capital spending in recent years for projects on which we receive contemporaneous returns at PSE&G has yielded strong results, which when combined with the cash flow generated by PSEG Power, has allowed us to meet customer needs, address market conditions and investor expectations, reflecting our long-term approach to managing our company. We continue our focus on operational excellence, financial strength and disciplined investment. These guiding principles have provided the base from which we have been able to execute our strategic initiatives.

Disciplined Investment 

We utilize rigorous criteria when deploying capital and seek to invest in areas that complement our existing business and provide reasonable risk-adjusted returns. These areas include upgrading our energy infrastructure and improving our environmental footprint to align with public policy objectives. In 2019, we

•made additional investments in T&D infrastructure projects on time and on budget,

•continued to execute our Energy Efficiency and other existing BPU-approved utility programs, and

44
•completed construction and placed into service our BH5 generation project, the final stage of our investment program in combined cycle gas turbines.

Regulatory, Legislative and Other Developments

In our pursuit of operational excellence, financial strength and disciplined investment, we closely monitor and engage with stakeholders on significant regulatory and legislative developments. Transmission planning rules and wholesale power market design are of particular importance to our results and we continue to advocate for policies and rules that promote fair and efficient electricity markets. For additional information about regulatory, legislative and other developments that may affect the company, see Item 1. Business—Regulatory Issues. 

Transmission Planning

In March 2019, FERC issued a Notice of Inquiry (NOI) seeking comment on improvements to FERC’s electric transmission incentives policy to ensure that it appropriately encourages the development of the infrastructure needed to ensure grid reliability and reduce congestion to lower the cost of power for consumers. The NOI is intended to examine whether existing incentives, such as the 50 basis point adder for membership in the Regional Transmission Organization, should continue to be granted and whether new incentives should be established. 

In November 2019, FERC issued an order establishing a new Return on Equity (ROE) policy for reviewing existing transmission ROEs. FERC applied the methodology outlined in the new policy to two complaints filed against the Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO) transmission owners and found that the MISO transmission owners’ ROE was unjust and unreasonable and directed that the ROE be lowered. Other ROE complaints have been pending before FERC regarding the ISO New England Inc. Transmission Owners and utilities in other jurisdictions. In parallel to these proceedings, and in light of declining interest rates and other market conditions, over the past few years, several companies have negotiated settlements that have resulted in reduced ROEs. We continue to analyze the potential impact of these methodologies and cannot predict the outcome of ongoing ROE proceedings. An adverse change to PSE&G’s base transmission ROE or ROE incentives could be material.

Wholesale Power Market Design

In January 2020, New Jersey rejoined the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI). As a result, generating plants operating in New Jersey, including those owned by PSEG Power, that emit carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions will be required to procure credits for each ton they emit. In response to RGGI, PJM initiated a process in 2019 to investigate the development of a carbon pricing mechanism that may mitigate the environmental and financial distortions that could occur when emissions “leak” from non-participating states to the RGGI states. If the process leads to a market solution, it could have a material impact on the value of PSEG Power’s generating fleet.

In December 2019, FERC issued an order establishing new rules for PJM’s capacity market. In this new order, FERC extended the PJM Minimum Offer Price Rule (MOPR), which currently applies to new natural gas-fired generators, to include both new and existing resources that receive or are entitled to receive certain out-of-market payments, with certain exemptions. PSEG cannot at this time estimate the impact of the MOPR on resources that receive out-of-market payments or the markets generally. 

States that have clean energy programs designed to achieve public policy goals are not prevented from pursuing those programs by the expanded MOPR and could choose to utilize the existing Fixed Resource Requirement (FRR) approach authorized under the PJM tariff. Subsidized units that cannot clear in a Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) capacity auction because of the expanded MOPR could still count as capacity resources to a load serving entity using the FRR approach. 

PSEG Power’s New Jersey nuclear plants that receive ZEC payments will be subject to the new MOPR. However, the impact, if any, of the MOPR on the ability of the nuclear plants to clear in the RPM markets will depend on the level of the applicable generic offer floors as well as the offer floor levels that would be derived via a unit specific exception should one or more of the units elect that option. In addition, if one or more electric distribution zones in New Jersey (or another state) were to become FRR service areas, procurements needed for that area could provide an alternate means for nuclear units whose ability to clear in RPM auctions was affected by the MOPR to provide capacity within PJM. 

We cannot predict what impact those rules will have on the capacity market or our generating stations. In addition, we cannot predict whether there will be challenges to the FERC order and, if so, the impact of such challenges on the MOPR and other capacity market rules. 

45
Environmental Regulation

We are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances that we generated. In particular, the historic operations of PSEG companies and the operations of numerous other companies along the Passaic and Hackensack Rivers are alleged by Federal and State agencies to have discharged substantial contamination into the Passaic River/Newark Bay Complex in violation of various statutes. We are also currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where other hazardous substances may have been discharged and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future, and the costs of any such remediation efforts could be material.

For further information regarding the matters described above, as well as other matters that may impact our financial condition and results of operations, see Item 8. Note 15. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

Nuclear 

In April 2019, PSEG Power’s Salem 1, Salem 2 and Hope Creek nuclear plants were awarded ZECs by the BPU. Pursuant to a process established by the BPU, ZECs are purchased from selected nuclear plants and recovered through a non-bypassable distribution charge in the amount of $0.004 per kilowatt-hour used (which is equivalent to approximately $10 per megawatt hour generated in payments to selected nuclear plants (ZEC payment)). These nuclear plants are expected to receive ZEC revenue for approximately three years, through May 2022, and will be obligated to maintain operations during that period, subject to exceptions specified in the ZEC legislation. PSEG Power has and will continue to recognize revenue monthly as the nuclear plants generate electricity and satisfy their performance obligations. The ZEC legislation requires nuclear plants to reapply for any subsequent three year periods. The ZEC payment may be adjusted by the BPU (a) at any time to offset environmental or fuel diversity payments that a selected nuclear plant may receive from another source or (b) at certain times specified in the ZEC legislation if the BPU determines that the purposes of the ZEC legislation can be achieved through a reduced charge that will nonetheless be sufficient to achieve the state’s air quality and other environmental objectives by preventing the retirement of nuclear plants. The BPU’s decision awarding ZECs has been appealed by the Division of Rate Counsel. PSEG cannot predict the outcome of this matter. In the event that (i) the ZEC program is overturned or otherwise materially adversely modified through legal process, (ii) the terms and conditions of the subsequent period under the ZEC program, including the amount of ZEC payments that may be awarded, materially differ from those of the current ZEC period, or (iii) any of the Salem 1, Salem 2 and Hope Creek plants is not awarded ZEC payments by the BPU and does not otherwise experience a material financial change, PSEG Power will take all necessary steps to retire all of these plants subsequent to the initial ZEC period at or prior to a scheduled refueling outage. Alternatively, if all of the Salem 1, Salem 2 and Hope Creek plants are selected to continue to receive ZEC payments but the financial condition of the plants is materially adversely impacted by changes in commodity prices, FERC’s changes to the capacity market construct (absent sufficient capacity revenues provided under a program approved by the BPU in accordance with a FERC-authorized capacity mechanism), or, in the case of the Salem nuclear plants, decisions by the EPA and state environmental regulators regarding the implementation of Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act and related state regulations, or other factors, PSEG Power would still take all necessary steps to retire all of these plants. Retirement of these plants would result in a material adverse impact on PSEG’s and PSEG Power’s financial results.

Fossil

In September 2019, PSEG Power completed the sale of its ownership interests in the Keystone and Conemaugh generation plants and related assets and liabilities. PSEG Power recorded a pre-tax loss on disposition of approximately $400 million in the second quarter of 2019 as the sale price was less than book value. PSEG Power has also announced the early retirement of its 383 MW coal unit in Bridgeport, Connecticut in 2021. Including this planned retirement in 2021, PSEG Power will have retired or exited through sales over 2,400 MW of coal-fired generation since 2017.

California Solar Facilities

As part of its solar production portfolio, PSEG Power owns and operates two California-based solar facilities with an aggregate capacity of approximately 30 MW direct current whose output is sold to Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) under power purchase agreements (PPAs) with twenty year terms. The net book value of these solar facilities was approximately $55 million as of December 31, 2019. In January 2019, PG&E and its parent company PG&E Corporation filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. PSEG Power cannot predict the ultimate outcome that this bankruptcy proceeding will have on our ability to collect all of the revenues from these facilities due under the PPAs; however, any adverse changes to the terms of PSEG Power’s PPAs as a result of this bankruptcy proceeding could result in the future impairment of these assets in amounts up to their current net book value.

Offshore Wind

In June 2019, the BPU selected Ørsted US Offshore Wind’s Ocean Wind project as the winning bid in New Jersey’s initial solicitation for 1,100 MW of offshore wind generation. In October 2019, PSEG exercised its option on Ørsted’s Ocean Wind 

46
project, resulting in a period of exclusive negotiation for PSEG to potentially acquire a 25% equity interest in the project, subject to negotiations toward a joint venture agreement, advanced due diligence and any required regulatory approvals.

Leveraged Leases 

In December 2018, NRG REMA, LLC emerged from its in-court proceeding under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. As a result of the restructuring, the remaining deferred tax liabilities related to the Keystone and Conemaugh lease investments were reclassified to current tax liabilities. PSEG realized the remaining tax liability related to the restructuring of approximately $85 million with the filing of the consolidated federal income tax return in December 2019.

Additional facilities in our leveraged lease portfolio include the Shawville, Joliet and Powerton generating facilities. Converted natural gas units such as Shawville and Joliet may have higher operating costs and fuel consumption, as well as longer start-up times, compared to newer combined cycle gas units. Powerton is a coal-fired generating facility in Illinois. 

During the second quarter of 2019, Energy Holdings completed its annual review of estimated residual values embedded in the leveraged leases. The outcome indicated that the updated residual value estimate of the coal-fired Powerton lease was lower than the recorded residual value and the decline was deemed to be other than temporary as a result of expected future adverse market conditions. As a result, a pre-tax write-down of $58 million was reflected in Operating Revenues in the quarter ended June 30, 2019, calculated by comparing the gross investment in the leases before and after the revised residual estimates.

Each of these three facilities may not be as economically competitive as newer combined cycle gas units and could continue to be adversely impacted by the same economic conditions experienced by other less efficient natural gas and coal generation facilities, which could require additional write-downs of the residual values of Energy Holdings’ leveraged lease receivables associated with these facilities.

Tax Legislation

For non-regulated businesses, the Tax Act enacted rules that set a cap on the amount of interest that can be deducted in a given year. Any amount that is disallowed can be carried forward indefinitely. For 2018 and 2019, a portion of PSEG’s and PSEG Power’s interest was disallowed but is expected to be realized in future periods. However, certain aspects of the law are unclear. Therefore, we recorded taxes in 2018 and 2019 based on our interpretation of the relevant statute. Amounts recorded under the Tax Act, such as depreciation and interest disallowance, are subject to change based on several factors, including but not limited to, the Internal Revenue Service and state taxing authorities issuing additional guidance and/or further clarification. Any further guidance or clarification could impact PSEG’s, PSE&G’s and PSEG Power’s financial statements. For additional information, see Item 8. Note 22. Income Taxes.

In July 2018, the State of New Jersey made changes to its income tax laws, including imposing a temporary surtax of 2.5% effective January 1, 2018 and 2019 and 1.5% in 2020 and 2021, as well as requiring corporate taxpayers to file in a combined reporting group as defined under New Jersey law starting in 2019. Both provisions include an exemption for public utilities. We believe PSE&G meets the definition of a public utility and, therefore, will not be impacted by the temporary surtax or be included in the combined reporting group. There are certain aspects of the law that are not clear. We anticipate the State of New Jersey will be issuing clarifying guidance regarding combined reporting rules. Any further guidance or clarification could impact PSEG’s and PSEG Power’s financial statements. 

Future Outlook 

For more than a century, our mission has been to provide universal access to an around-the-clock supply of reliable, affordable power. Building on this mission, we believe in a future where customers universally use less energy, the energy they use is cleaner, and its delivery is more reliable and more resilient. In July 2019, we announced that we expect to cut carbon emissions at PSEG Power’s generation fleet by 80% by 2046, from 2005 levels. We have also announced our vision of attaining net-zero CO2 emissions by 2050, assuming advances in technology, public policy and customer behavior. 

Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to maintain strong operational and financial performance in an environment with low gas prices, to capitalize on or otherwise address regulatory and legislative developments that impact our business and to respond to the issues and challenges described below. In order to do this, we must continue to:

•focus on controlling costs while maintaining safety, reliability and customer satisfaction and complying with applicable standards and requirements,

•successfully manage our energy obligations and re-contract our open supply positions in response to changes in prices and demand,

•obtain approval of and execute our utility capital investment program, including our CEF program and other investments that yield contemporaneous and reasonable risk-adjusted returns, while enhancing the resiliency of our infrastructure and maintaining the reliability of the service we provide to our customers, 

47
•advocate for the continuation of the ZEC program and measures to ensure the implementation by PJM, FERC and state regulators of market design and transmission planning rules that continue to promote fair and efficient electricity markets, including recognition of the cost of emissions, 

•engage multiple stakeholders, including regulators, government officials, customers and investors, and

•successfully operate the LIPA T&D system and manage LIPA’s fuel supply and generation dispatch obligations.

In addition to the risks described elsewhere in this Form 10-K for 2020 and beyond, the key issues and challenges we expect our business to confront include:

•regulatory and political uncertainty, both with regard to future energy policy, design of energy and capacity markets, transmission policy and environmental regulation, as well as with respect to the outcome of any legal, regulatory or other proceedings,

•the continuing impacts of the Tax Act and changes in state tax laws, and

•the impact of reductions in demand and lower natural gas and electricity prices and increasing environmental compliance costs.

We continually assess a broad range of strategic options to maximize long-term stockholder value. In assessing our options, we consider a wide variety of factors, including the performance and prospects of our businesses; the views of investors, regulators, customers and rating agencies; our existing indebtedness and restrictions it imposes; and tax considerations, among other things. Strategic options available to us include:

•the acquisition, construction or disposition of T&D facilities, clean energy investments and/or generation projects, including offshore wind opportunities,

•the disposition or reorganization of our merchant generation business or other existing businesses or the acquisition or development of new businesses,

•the expansion of our geographic footprint, and

•investments in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades and retrofits, improvements to system resiliency, modernizing existing infrastructure and participation in transmission projects through FERC’s “open window” solicitation process.

There can be no assurance, however, that we will successfully develop and execute any of the strategic options noted above, or any additional options we may consider in the future. The execution of any such strategic plan may not have the expected benefits or may have unexpected adverse consequences.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

(A)PSEG Power’s results in 2019 include an after-tax loss of $286 million related to the sale of PSEG Power’s ownership interests in the Keystone and Conemaugh fossil generation plants. PSEG Power’s results in 2018 include an after-tax gain of $39 million from the sale of its Hudson and Mercer coal/gas generation plants and after-tax expenses of $577 million in 2017 related to the early retirement of the Hudson and Mercer generation plants. See Item 8. Note 4. Early Plant Retirements/Asset Dispositions for additional information. 

48
(B) Results in 2017 include the non-cash net income benefit of $745 million, including $588 million related to PSEG Power and $147 million related to Energy Holdings, resulting from the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities required due to the enactment of the Tax Act in December 2017. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

PSEG Power’s results above include the NDT Fund activity and the impacts of non-trading commodity mark-to-market (MTM) activity, which consist of the financial impact from positions with future delivery dates.

The variances in our Net Income attributable to changes related to the NDT Fund and MTM are shown in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(A)NDT Fund Income (Expense) includes gains and losses on NDT securities which are recorded in Net Gains (Losses) on Trust Investments. See Item 8. Note 11. Trust Investments for additional information. NDT Fund Income (Expense) also includes interest and dividend income and other costs related to the NDT Fund recorded in Other Income (Deductions), interest accretion expense on PSEG Power’s nuclear Asset Retirement Obligation (ARO) recorded in Operation & Maintenance (O&M) Expense and the depreciation related to the ARO asset recorded in Depreciation and Amortization (D&A) Expense.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our 2019 $255 million year-over-year increase was driven primarily by 

•higher earnings due to investments in T&D programs and the favorable impact of new rates effective November 1, 2018 as a result of the BPU’s approval of our distribution base rate proceeding at PSE&G,

•MTM gains in 2019 as compared to MTM losses in 2018 at PSEG Power,

•net gains in 2019 as compared to losses on equity securities in the NDT Fund at PSEG Power, 

•the favorable impact of retiree medical plan benefit changes implemented in 2019, and 

•revenue from ZECs starting in mid-April 2019 at PSEG Power, 

•largely offset by a loss related to the sale of PSEG Power’s ownership interests in the Keystone and Conemaugh generation plants in 2019. 

49
PSEG

Our results of operations are primarily comprised of the results of operations of our principal operating subsidiaries, PSE&G and PSEG Power, excluding charges related to intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in consolidation. For additional information on intercompany transactions, see Item 8. Note 26. Related-Party Transactions.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The 2019, 2018 and 2017 amounts in the preceding table for Operating Revenues and O&M costs each include $490 million, $458 million and $438 million, respectively, for PSEG LI’s subsidiary, Long Island Electric Utility Servco, LLC (Servco). These amounts represent the O&M pass-through costs for the Long Island operations, the full reimbursement of which is reflected in Operating Revenues. See Item 8. Note 5. Variable Interest Entity for further explanation. The Income Tax Benefit in 2017 includes the non-cash benefit resulting from the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities required due to the enactment of the Tax Act in December 2017. The following discussions for PSE&G and PSEG Power provide a detailed explanation of their respective variances. 

50
PSE&G

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2019 as compared to 2018 

Operating Revenues increased $154 million due to changes in delivery, clause, commodity and other operating revenues. 

Delivery Revenues decreased $67 million.

•Transmission revenues increased $97 million due to higher revenue requirements calculated through our transmission formula rate, primarily to recover required investments.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Transmission, electric distribution and gas distribution revenue requirements were $338 million lower as a result of rate reductions due to the flowback of excess deferred income tax liabilities and tax repair related accumulated deferred income taxes. This decrease is offset in Income Tax Expense.

Clause Revenues decreased $2 million due to $11 million in Tax Adjustment Credits (TAC) and GPRC deferrals. These decreases were partially offset by $6 million in Margin Adjustment Clause (MAC) revenues, $2 million in higher Solar Pilot Recovery Charge (SPRC) collections and higher Societal Benefit Charges (SBC) of $1 million. The changes in TAC and GPRC Deferrals, MAC, SPRC and SBC collections were entirely offset by the amortization of related costs (Regulatory Assets) in O&M, D&A and Interest and Tax Expenses. PSE&G does not earn margin on TAC or GPRC deferrals or on MAC, SPRC or SBC collections. 

Commodity Revenues increased $98 million due to higher Gas revenues partially offset by lower Electric revenues. The changes in Commodity Revenues for both gas and electric are entirely offset by changes in Energy Costs. PSE&G earns no margin on the provision of basic gas supply service (BGSS) and BGS to retail customers.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other Operating Revenues increased $125 million due primarily to ZEC revenues billed after the ZEC program was approved by the BPU in April 2019. See Item 8. Note 15. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities. The ZEC revenues are entirely offset by changes to Energy Costs.

51
Operating Expenses 

Energy Costs increased $218 million. This is entirely offset by changes in Commodity Revenues and Other Operating Revenues.

Operation and Maintenance increased $6 million due primarily to a $42 million net increase for various clause mechanisms and GPRC expenditures and a $4 million increase in injuries and damages. These increases were partially offset by a $19 million decrease in electric distribution maintenance expenditures, a $14 million decrease in transmission maintenance expenditures and a $6 million decrease in storm-related costs. 

Depreciation and Amortization increased $67 million due primarily to an increase in depreciation of $52 million due to additional plant placed into service, an $8 million increase due to new depreciation rates resulting from the distribution base rate settlement applied to assets held as of November 1, 2018 and a net $7 million increase from other factors. 

Non-Operating Pension and OPEB Credits (Costs) increased $91 million due primarily to a $103 million increase in the amortization of prior service credit mainly related to the December 2018 OPEB plan amendment and a $6 million decrease in interest cost, partially offset by a $17 million reduction in the expected return on plan assets.

Interest Expense increased $28 million due primarily to increases of $18 million due to net long-term debt issuances in 2019 and $12 million due to net long-term debt issuances in 2018. 

Income Tax Expense decreased $251 million due primarily to the flowback of excess deferred income tax liabilities and tax repair-related accumulated deferred income taxes to ratepayers.

Year Ended December 31, 2018 as compared to 2017 

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2018 Annual Report.

PSEG Power

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2019 as compared to 2018 

Operating Revenues increased $239 million due to changes in generation, gas supply and other operating revenues. 

Generation Revenues increased $312 million due primarily to

•a net increase of $374 million due to MTM gains in 2019 as compared to MTM losses in 2018. Of this amount, there was a $340 million increase from changes in forward prices in 2019 as compared to 2018, coupled with a $34 million increase due to more gains on positions reclassified to realized upon settlement, and

•an increase of $129 million due to ZEC revenues earned since mid-April 2019, 

52
•partially offset by a decrease of $112 million in electricity sold under our BGS contracts due to lower volumes and lower prices, 

•a net decrease of $63 million due primarily to lower average realized prices in the PJM, New England (NE), and New York (NY) regions coupled with lower volumes sold in the NY region, partially offset by higher volumes of electricity sold in the PJM and NE regions, and

•a net decrease of $16 million in capacity revenues due primarily to decreases in auction prices in the PJM region, partially offset by the commencement of commercial operations of Keys and Sewaren 7 in mid-2018 and BH5 in June 2019.

Gas Supply Revenues decreased $75 million due primarily to

•a decrease of $107 million related to sales to third parties, primarily due to lower volumes sold and lower average sales prices,

•partially offset by an increase of $27 million in sales under the BGSS contract, primarily due to higher average sales prices and higher volumes sold.

Operating Expenses

Energy Costs represent the cost of generation, which includes fuel costs for generation as well as purchased energy in the market, and gas purchases to meet PSEG Power’s obligation under its BGSS contract with PSE&G. Energy Costs decreased $79 million due to

Gas costs decreased $52 million due primarily to

•a net decrease of $90 million related to sales to third parties due primarily to lower volumes sold and lower average gas costs,

•partially offset by a net increase of $40 million related to sales under the BGSS contract, primarily due to an increase in the average cost of gas. 

Generation costs decreased $27 million due primarily 

•a net decrease of $21 million due to lower MTM losses in 2019 as compared to 2018, and

•a net decrease of $15 million due primarily to decreases in energy purchased in the NE region due to BH5 beginning commercial operations in June 2019, 

•partially offset by a net increase of $13 million in higher fuel costs reflecting utilization of higher volumes of gas at Keys, Sewaren 7 and BH5, coupled with higher prices of gas in the PJM region, partially offset by utilization of lower volumes and lower prices of gas in the NY region, lower prices of gas in the NE region, utilization of lower volumes of oil in the PJM region, and lower usage of coal at lower prices in the PJM and NE regions.

Operation and Maintenance decreased $13 million due primarily to a decrease at our fossil plants, largely due to lower outage costs, decreased support costs and the sale of PSEG Power’s ownership interests in the Keystone and Conemaugh generation plants in September 2019. The decrease was partially offset by a goodwill impairment charge of $16 million for the write down of PSEG Power’s carrying value to fair value (see Note 12. Goodwill and Other Intangibles), increased costs related to the Keys and Sewaren 7 being placed into service in mid-2018 and increased property taxes. 

Depreciation and Amortization increased $23 million due primarily to Keys, Sewaren 7 and BH5 being placed into service, partially offset by the sale of PSEG Power’s ownership interests in the Keystone and Conemaugh generation plants.

(Gain) Loss on Asset Dispositions reflects a $402 million loss in 2019 related to the sale of PSEG Power’s ownership interests in the Keystone and Conemaugh generation plants and a gain of $54 million in 2018 related to the sale of the Hudson and Mercer plants. 

Net Gains (Losses) on Trust Investments increased $393 million due primarily to a $405 million increase resulting from net unrealized gains in 2019 as compared to net unrealized losses in 2018 on equity investments in the NDT Fund, partially offset by a $16 million decrease in net realized gains on NDT Fund investments.

Other Income (Deductions) increased $33 million primarily due to $26 million in less purchased net operating losses and higher interest and dividend income on NDT Fund investments. 

Non-Operating Pension and OPEB Credits (Costs) increased $6 million due to a $19 million increase in the amortization of prior service credit mainly related to the December 2018 OPEB plan amendment, a $5 million decrease in interest cost and a $3 

53
million decrease in the amortization of the net unrecognized loss, largely offset by a $20 million decrease in the expected return on plan assets. 

Interest Expense increased $43 million due primarily to lower capitalized interest as a result of Keys and Sewaren 7 being placed into service in mid-2018 and BH5 being place into service in June 2019. 

Income Tax Expense increased $137 million due primarily to higher pre-tax income, including higher pre-tax income from the NDT qualified fund which is subject to an additional trust tax, and the favorable impact that resulted in 2018 from the remeasurement of the reserve for uncertain tax positions. 

Year Ended December 31, 2018 as compared to 2017

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2018 Annual Report.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The following discussion of our liquidity and capital resources is on a consolidated basis, noting the uses and contributions, where material, of our two direct major operating subsidiaries.

Financing Methodology

We expect our capital requirements to be met through internally generated cash flows and external financings, consisting of short-term debt for working capital needs and long-term debt for capital investments.

PSE&G’s sources of external liquidity include a $600 million multi-year revolving credit facility. PSE&G uses internally generated cash flow and its commercial paper program to meet seasonal, intra-month and temporary working capital needs. PSE&G does not engage in any intercompany borrowing or lending arrangements. PSE&G maintains back-up facilities in an amount sufficient to cover the commercial paper and letters of credit outstanding. PSE&G’s dividend payments to/capital contributions from PSEG are consistent with its capital structure objectives which have been established to maintain investment grade credit ratings. PSE&G’s long-term financing plan is designed to replace maturities, fund a portion of its capital program and manage short-term debt balances. Generally, PSE&G uses either secured medium-term notes or first mortgage bonds to raise long-term capital. 

PSEG, PSEG Power, Energy Holdings, PSEG LI and Services participate in a corporate money pool, an aggregation of daily cash balances designed to efficiently manage their respective short-term liquidity needs. Servco does not participate in the corporate money pool. Servco’s short-term liquidity needs are met through an account funded and owned by LIPA. 

PSEG’s available sources of external liquidity may include the issuance of long-term debt securities and the incurrence of additional indebtedness under credit facilities. Our current sources of external liquidity include multi-year revolving credit facilities totaling $1.5 billion. These facilities are available to back-stop PSEG’s commercial paper program, issue letters of credit and for general corporate purposes. PSEG’s credit facilities and the commercial paper program are available to support PSEG working capital needs or to temporarily fund growth opportunities in advance of obtaining permanent financing. PSEG’s credit facilities are also available to make equity contributions or provide liquidity support to its subsidiaries.

PSEG Power’s sources of external liquidity include $2.1 billion of multi-year revolving credit facilities. Additionally, from time to time, PSEG Power maintains bilateral credit agreements designed to enhance its liquidity position. Credit capacity is primarily used to provide collateral in support of PSEG Power’s forward energy sale and forward fuel purchase contracts as the market prices for energy and fuel fluctuate, and to meet potential collateral postings in the event that PSEG Power is downgraded to below investment grade by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) or Moody’s. PSEG Power’s dividend payments to PSEG are also designed to be consistent with its capital structure objectives which have been established to maintain investment grade credit ratings and provide sufficient financial flexibility. Generally, PSEG Power issues senior unsecured debt to raise long-term capital.

Operating Cash Flows 

We expect our operating cash flows combined with cash on hand and financing activities to be sufficient to fund capital expenditures and shareholder dividend payments.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, our operating cash flow increased by $466 million. The net changes were primarily due to net changes from our subsidiaries as discussed below. 

54
PSE&G

PSE&G’s operating cash flow increased $182 million from $1,853 million to $2,035 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to 2018, due primarily to an increase of $178 million from recoveries of regulatory deferrals and tax refunds in 2019 as compared to tax payments in 2018, partially offset by $123 million in increased vendor payments. 

PSEG Power

PSEG Power’s operating cash flow increased $395 million from $1,084 million to $1,479 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to 2018, due to a decrease in cash collateral requirements of $596 million, partially offset by an $83 million decrease from net collections of counterparty receivables, and lower tax refunds in 2019 as compared to 2018.

Short-Term Liquidity

PSEG meets its short-term liquidity requirements, as well as those of PSEG Power, primarily with cash and through the issuance of commercial paper. PSE&G maintains its own separate commercial paper program to meet its short-term liquidity requirements. Each commercial paper program is fully back-stopped by its own separate credit facilities.

We continually monitor our liquidity and seek to add capacity as needed to meet our liquidity requirements. Each of our credit facilities is restricted as to availability and use to the specific companies as listed below; however, if necessary, the PSEG facilities can also be used to support our subsidiaries’ liquidity needs.

Our total credit facilities and available liquidity as of December 31, 2019 were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2019, our credit facility capacity was in excess of our projected maximum liquidity requirements over our 12 month planning horizon. Our maximum liquidity requirements are based on stress scenarios that incorporate changes in commodity prices and the potential impact of PSEG Power losing its investment grade credit rating from S&P or Moody’s, which would represent a three level downgrade from its current S&P or Moody’s ratings. In the event of a deterioration of PSEG Power’s credit rating, certain of PSEG Power’s agreements allow the counterparty to demand further performance assurance. The potential additional collateral that we would be required to post under these agreements if PSEG Power were to lose its investment grade credit rating was approximately $974 million and $857 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

For additional information, see Item 8. Note 16. Debt and Credit Facilities.

Long-Term Debt Financing 

During the next twelve months, [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For a discussion of our long-term debt transactions during 2019, see Item 8. Note 16. Debt and Credit Facilities.

Debt Covenants 

Our credit agreements contain maximum debt to equity ratios and other restrictive covenants and conditions to borrowing. We are currently in compliance with all of our debt covenants. Continued compliance with applicable financial covenants will depend upon our future financial position, level of earnings and cash flows, as to which no assurances can be given.

In addition, under its First and Refunding Mortgage (Mortgage), PSE&G may issue new First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds against previous additions and improvements, provided that its ratio of earnings to fixed charges calculated in accordance with 

55
its Mortgage is at least 2 to 1, and/or against retired Mortgage Bonds. As of December 31, 2019, PSE&G’s Mortgage coverage ratio was 4.5 to 1 and the Mortgage would permit up to approximately $7.6 billion aggregate principal amount of new Mortgage Bonds to be issued against additions and improvements to its property.

Default Provisions

Our bank credit agreements and indentures contain various, customary default provisions that could result in the potential acceleration of indebtedness under the defaulting company’s agreement. 

In particular, PSEG’s bank credit agreements contain provisions under which certain events, including an acceleration of material indebtedness under PSE&G’s and PSEG Power’s respective financing agreements, a failure by PSE&G or PSEG Power to satisfy certain final judgments and certain bankruptcy events by PSE&G or PSEG Power, that would constitute an event of default under the PSEG bank credit agreements. Under the PSEG bank credit agreements, it would also be an event of default if either PSE&G or PSEG Power ceases to be wholly owned by PSEG. The PSE&G and PSEG Power bank credit agreements include similar default provisions; however, such provisions only relate to the respective borrower under such agreement and its subsidiaries and do not contain cross default provisions to each other. The PSE&G and PSEG Power bank credit agreements do not include cross default provisions relating to PSEG. PSEG Power’s bank credit agreements and outstanding notes also contain limitations on the incurrence of subsidiary debt and liens and certain of PSEG Power’s outstanding notes require PSEG Power to repurchase such notes upon certain change of control events. 

There are no cross-acceleration provisions in PSEG’s or PSE&G’s indentures. However, PSEG’s existing notes include a cross acceleration provision that may be triggered upon the acceleration of more than $75 million of indebtedness incurred by PSEG. Such provision does not extend to an acceleration of indebtedness by any of PSEG’s subsidiaries. PSEG Power’s indenture includes a cross acceleration provision similar to that described above for PSEG’s existing notes except that such provision may be triggered upon the acceleration of more than $50 million of indebtedness incurred by PSEG Power or any of its subsidiaries. Such provision does not cross accelerate to PSEG, any of PSEG’s subsidiaries (other than PSEG Power and its subsidiaries), PSE&G or any of PSE&G’s subsidiaries.

Ratings Triggers 

Our debt indentures and credit agreements do not contain any material “ratings triggers” that would cause an acceleration of the required interest and principal payments in the event of a ratings downgrade. However, in the event of a downgrade, any one or more of the affected companies may be subject to increased interest costs on certain bank debt and certain collateral requirements. In the event that we are not able to affirm representations and warranties on credit agreements, lenders would not be required to make loans.

In accordance with BPU requirements under the BGS contracts, PSE&G is required to maintain an investment grade credit rating. If PSE&G were to lose its investment grade rating, it would be required to file a plan to assure continued payment for the BGS requirements of its customers. 

Fluctuations in commodity prices or a deterioration of PSEG Power’s credit rating to below investment grade could increase PSEG Power’s required margin postings under various agreements entered into in the normal course of business. PSEG Power believes it has sufficient liquidity to meet the required posting of collateral which would likely result from a credit rating downgrade to below investment grade by S&P or Moody’s at today’s market prices.

Common Stock Dividends

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On February 18, 2020, our Board of Directors approved a $0.49 per share common stock dividend for the first quarter of 2020. This reflects an indicative annual dividend rate of $1.96 per share. We expect to continue to pay cash dividends on our common stock; however, the declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our businesses, alternate investment opportunities, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors that the Board of Directors deems relevant. For additional information related to cash dividends on our common stock, see Item 8. Note 24. Earnings Per Share (EPS) and Dividends.

56
Credit Ratings 

If the rating agencies lower or withdraw our credit ratings, such revisions may adversely affect the market price of our securities and serve to materially increase our cost of capital and limit access to capital. Credit Ratings shown are for securities that we typically issue. Outlooks are shown for Issuer Credit Ratings (Moody’s) and Corporate Credit Ratings (S&P) and can be Stable, Negative, or Positive. There is no assurance that the ratings will continue for any given period of time or that they will not be revised by the rating agencies, if in their respective judgments, circumstances warrant. Each rating given by an agency should be evaluated independently of the other agencies’ ratings. The ratings should not be construed as an indication to buy, hold or sell any security.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(A)Moody’s ratings range from Aaa (highest) to C (lowest) for long-term securities and P1 (highest) to NP (lowest) for short-term securities.

(B)S&P ratings range from AAA (highest) to D (lowest) for long-term securities and A1 (highest) to D (lowest) for short-term securities. 

Other Comprehensive Income

For the year ended December 31, 2019, we had Other Comprehensive Loss of $31 million on a consolidated basis. Other Comprehensive Loss was due primarily to a decrease of $58 million related to pension and other postretirement benefits, and $14 million of unrealized losses on derivative contracts accounted for as hedges, partially offset by $41 million of net unrealized gains related to Available-for-Sale Securities. See Item 8. Note 23. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax for additional information. 

57
CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS 

We expect that all of our capital requirements over the next three years will come from a combination of internally generated funds and external debt financing. Projected capital construction and investment expenditures, excluding nuclear fuel purchases, for the next three years are presented in the table below. These projections include Allowance for Funds Used During Construction and Interest Capitalized During Construction for PSE&G and PSEG Power, respectively. These amounts are subject to change, based on various factors. Amounts shown below for Gas System Modernization, Energy Strong and Clean Energy are for currently approved programs. We intend to continue to invest in infrastructure modernization and will seek to extend these and related programs as appropriate. We will also continue to approach potential growth investments for PSEG Power opportunistically, seeking projects that will provide attractive risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

PSE&G 

PSE&G’s projections for future capital expenditures include material additions and replacements to its T&D systems to meet expected growth and to manage reliability. As project scope and cost estimates develop, PSE&G will modify its current projections to include these required investments. PSE&G’s projected expenditures for the various items reported above are primarily comprised of the following:

•Transmission—investments focused on reliability improvements and replacement of aging infrastructure.

•Distribution—investments for new business, reliability improvements, modernization and replacement of equipment that has reached the end of its useful life.

•Gas System Modernization—gas distribution investment program to replace aging infrastructure.

•Energy Strong—electric and gas distribution investment program focused on electric flood mitigation and replacing aging infrastructure.

•Clean Energy—investments associated with grid-connected solar, solar loan programs and customer energy efficiency programs. 

In October 2018, we filed our proposed CEF program with the BPU, a six-year estimated $3.5 billion investment program focused on achieving New Jersey’s energy efficiency targets, supporting electric vehicle infrastructure, deploying energy storage, and implementing an EC program which will include installing approximately two million electric smart meters and associated infrastructure. The size and duration of the CEF program, as well as certain other elements of the program, are subject to BPU approval.

The CEF program is not included in PSE&G’s projected capital expenditures in the above table. 

In 2019, PSE&G made $2,542 million of capital expenditures, primarily for T&D system reliability. This does not include expenditures for cost of removal, net of salvage, of $108 million, which are included in operating cash flows.

58
PSEG Power

PSEG Power’s projected expenditures for the various items listed above are primarily comprised of the following:

•Baseline—investments to replace major parts and enhance operational performance.

•Other—includes investments made in response to environmental, regulatory and legal mandates and other capital projects.

In 2019, PSEG Power made $482 million of capital expenditures, excluding $125 million for nuclear fuel, primarily related to various projects at Fossil and Nuclear.

Disclosures about Contractual Obligations

The following table reflects our contractual cash obligations in the respective periods in which they are due. In addition, the table summarizes anticipated debt maturities for the years shown. For additional information, see Item 8. Note 16. Debt and Credit Facilities.

The table below does not reflect any anticipated cash payments for pension obligations due to uncertain timing of payments or liabilities for uncertain tax positions since we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. See Item 8. Note 22. Income Taxes for additional information.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

PSEG and PSEG Power issue guarantees, primarily in conjunction with certain of PSEG Power’s energy contracts. See Item 8. Note 15. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities for further discussion.

Through Energy Holdings, we have investments in leveraged leases that are accounted for in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) for leases. Leveraged lease investments generally involve three 

59
parties: an owner/lessor, a creditor and a lessee. In a typical leveraged lease arrangement, the lessor purchases an asset to be leased. The purchase price is typically financed 80% with debt provided by the creditor and the balance comes from equity funds provided by the lessor. The creditor provides long-term financing to the transaction secured by the property subject to the lease. Such long-term financing is non-recourse to the lessor and is not presented on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. In the event of default, the leased asset, and in some cases the lessee, secures the loan. As a lessor, Energy Holdings has ownership rights to the property and rents the property to the lessees for use in their business operations. For additional information, see Item 8. Note 9. Long-Term Investments and Note 10. Financing Receivables.

In the event that collection of the minimum lease payments to be received by Energy Holdings is no longer reasonably assured, Energy Holdings may deem that a lessee has a high probability of defaulting on the lease obligation and would consider the need to record an impairment of its investment. In the event the lease is ultimately rejected by the lessee in a Bankruptcy Court proceeding, the fair value of the underlying asset and the associated debt would be recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets instead of the net equity investment in the lease.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Under GAAP, many accounting standards require the use of estimates, variable inputs and assumptions (collectively referred to as estimates) that are subjective in nature. Because of this, differences between the actual measure realized versus the estimate can have a material impact on results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We have determined that the following estimates are considered critical to the application of rules that relate to the respective businesses.

Accounting for Pensions and OPEB

PSEG sponsors qualified and nonqualified pension plans and OPEB plans covering PSEG’s and its participating affiliates’ current and former employees who meet certain eligibility criteria. In late June 2019, PSEG approved a plan amendment to its qualified pension plan, effective July 1, 2019. The amendment involved the spin-off of predominantly active participants from the existing qualified pension plan (Pension Plan) into a new qualified pension plan (Pension Plan II). See Item 8. Note 14. Pension, Other Postretirement Benefits (OPEB) and Savings Plans for additional information. The market-related value of plan assets held for the qualified pension and OPEB plans is equal to the fair value of these assets as of year-end. The plan assets are comprised of investments in both debt and equity securities which are valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. Plan assets also include investments in unlisted real estate which is valued via third-party appraisals. We calculate pension and OPEB costs using various economic and demographic assumptions.

Assumptions and Approach Used: Economic assumptions include the discount rate and the long-term rate of return on trust assets. Demographic pension and OPEB assumptions include projections of future mortality rates, pay increases and retirement patterns, as well as projected health care costs for OPEB.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The discount rate used to calculate pension and OPEB obligations is determined as of December 31 each year, our measurement date. The discount rate is determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of high quality corporate bonds with similar maturities to the plan obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated plan distributions. The discount rate is the single equivalent rate that produces the same result as the full spot rate curve. 

Our expected rate of return on plan assets reflects current asset allocations, historical long-term investment performance and an estimate of future long-term returns by asset class, long-term inflation assumptions and a premium for active management.

We utilize a corridor approach that reduces the volatility of reported costs/credits. The corridor requires differences between actuarial assumptions and plan results be deferred and amortized as part of the costs/credits. This occurs only when the accumulated differences exceed 10% of the greater of the benefit obligation or the fair value of plan assets as of each year-end. For the Pension Plan, the excess would be amortized over the average remaining expected life of inactive participants, which is 

60
approximately twenty years. For Pension Plan II, the excess would be amortized over the average remaining service period of active employees, which is approximately fourteen years.

Effect if Different Assumptions Used: As part of the business planning process, we have modeled future costs assuming a 7.70% expected rate of return and a 3.30% discount rate for 2020 pension costs/credits and a 3.20% discount rate for 2020 OPEB costs/credits. Based upon these assumptions, we have estimated a net periodic pension credit in 2020 of approximately $28 million, or $84 million, net of amounts capitalized, and a net periodic OPEB credit in 2020 of approximately $77 million, or $81 million, net of amounts capitalized. Actual future pension costs/credits and funding levels will depend on future investment performance, changes in discount rates, market conditions, funding levels relative to our projected benefit obligation and accumulated benefit obligation and various other factors related to the populations participating in the pension plans. Actual future OPEB costs/credits will depend on future investment performance, changes in discount rates, market conditions, and various other factors.

The following chart reflects the sensitivities associated with a change in certain assumptions. The effects of the assumption changes shown below solely reflect the impact of that specific assumption.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for additional information.

Derivative Instruments

The operations of PSEG, PSEG Power and PSE&G are exposed to market risks from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and equity prices that could affect their results of operations and financial condition. Exposure to these risks is managed through normal operating and financing activities and, when appropriate, through executing derivative transactions. Derivative instruments are used to create a relationship in which changes to the value of the assets, liabilities or anticipated transactions exposed to market risks are expected to be offset by changes in the value of these derivative instruments. 

Current accounting guidance requires us to recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at their fair value, except for derivatives that qualify for and are designated as normal purchases and normal sales contracts.

Assumptions and Approach Used: In general, the fair value of our derivative instruments is determined primarily by end of day clearing market prices from an exchange, such as the New York Mercantile Exchange, Intercontinental Exchange and Nodal Exchange, or auction prices. Fair values of other energy contracts may be based on broker quotes.

For a small number of contracts where limited observable inputs or pricing information are available, modeling techniques are employed in determination of their fair value using assumptions reflective of contractual terms, current market rates, forward price curves, discount rates and risk factors, as applicable. 

For our wholesale energy business, many of the forward sale, forward purchase, option and other contracts are derivative instruments that hedge commodity price risk, but do not meet the requirements for, or are not designated as, either cash flow or fair value hedge accounting. The changes in value of such derivative contracts are marked to market through earnings as the related commodity prices fluctuate. As a result, our earnings may experience significant fluctuations depending on the volatility of commodity prices.

Effect if Different Assumptions Used: Any significant changes to the fair market values of our derivatives instruments could result in a material change in the value of the assets or liabilities recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and could result in a material change to the unrealized gains or losses recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.

For additional information regarding Derivative Financial Instruments, see Item 8. Note 1. Organization, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, Note 18. Financial Risk Management Activities and Note 19. Fair Value Measurements.

61
Long-Lived Assets

Management evaluates long-lived assets for impairment and reassesses the reasonableness of their related estimated useful lives whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant assessment. Such events or changes in circumstances may be as a result of significant adverse changes in regulation, business climate, counterparty credit worthiness, market conditions, or a determination that it is more-likely-than-not that an asset or asset group will be sold or retired before its estimated useful life, an asset group’s carrying amount may not be recoverable or an asset’s probability of operating through its estimated remaining useful life changes. 

Assumptions and Approach Used: In the event certain triggers exist indicating an asset/asset group may not be recoverable, an undiscounted cash flow test is performed to determine if an impairment exists. When the carrying value of a long-lived asset/asset group exceeds the undiscounted estimate of future cash flows associated with the asset/asset group, an impairment may exist to the extent that the fair value of the asset/asset group is less than its carrying amount. For PSEG Power, cash flows for long-lived assets and asset groups are determined at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. The cash flows from the generation units are generally evaluated at a regional portfolio level (PJM, NYISO, ISO-NE) along with cash flows generated from the customer supply and risk management activities, inclusive of cash flows from contracts, including those that are accounted for as derivatives and meet the normal purchases and normal sales scope exception. In certain cases, generation assets are evaluated on an individual basis where those assets are individually contracted on a long-term basis with a third party and operations are independent of other generation assets (typically PSEG Power’s solar plants and Kalaeloa). These tests require significant estimates and judgment when developing expected future cash flows. Significant inputs include forward power prices, fuel costs, dispatch rates, other operating and capital expenditures and the cost of borrowing.

In addition, long-lived assets are depreciated under the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives. An asset’s operating useful life is generally based upon operational experience with similar asset types and other non-operational factors. In the ordinary course, management, together with an asset’s co-owners in the case of certain of our jointly-owned assets, makes a number of decisions that impact the operation of our generation assets beyond the current year. These decisions may have a direct impact on the estimated remaining useful lives of our assets and will be influenced by the financial outlook of the assets, including future market conditions such as forward energy and capacity prices, operating and capital investment costs and any state or federal legislation and regulations, among other items. 

The assumptions used by management incorporate inherent uncertainties that are at times difficult to predict and could result in impairment charges or accelerated depreciation in future periods if actual results materially differ from the estimated assumptions utilized in our forecasts. 

Effect if Different Assumptions Used: The above cash flow tests, and fair value estimates and estimated remaining useful lives may be impacted by a change in the assumptions noted above and could significantly impact the outcome, triggering additional impairment tests, write-offs or accelerated depreciation. For additional information on the potential impacts on our future financial statements that may be caused by a change in useful lives of certain of our generating assets. See Item 8. Note 4. Early Plant Retirements/Asset Dispositions and Note 6. Property, Plant and Equipment and Jointly-Owned Facilities. 

Lease Investments

Our Investments in Leases, included in Long-Term Investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, are comprised of Lease Receivables (net of non-recourse debt), the estimated residual value of leased assets, and unearned and deferred income. A significant portion of the estimated residual value of leased assets is related to merchant power plants leased to other energy companies. See Item 8. Note 9. Long-Term Investments and Note 10. Financing Receivables.

Assumptions and Approach Used: Residual values are the estimated values of the leased assets at the end of the respective lease per the original lease terms, net of any subsequent impairments. The estimated values are calculated by discounting the cash flows related to the leased assets after the lease term. For the merchant power plants, the estimated discounted cash flows are dependent upon various assumptions, including:

•estimated forward power and capacity prices in the years after the lease,

•related prices of fuel for the plants,

•dispatch rates for the plants,

•future capital expenditures required to maintain the plants,

•future O&M expenses, 

•discount rates, and

62
•the current estimated economic viability of the plants after the end of the base lease term.

In addition, the residual values could be impacted by the intent to sell or terminate the leases. A review of the residual valuations is performed at least annually for each plant subject to lease using specific assumptions tailored to each plant. Those valuations are compared to the recorded residual values to determine if an impairment is warranted.

Effect if Different Assumptions Used: A significant change to the assumptions, such as a large decrease in near-term power prices that affects the market’s view of long-term power prices, could result in an impairment of one or more of the residual values, but not necessarily to all of the residual values. However, if because of changes in assumptions, all the residual values related to the merchant energy plants were deemed to be zero, we would recognize an after-tax charge to income of approximately $49 million.

Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO)

PSE&G, PSEG Power and Services recognize liabilities for the expected cost of retiring long-lived assets for which a legal obligation exists. These AROs are recorded at fair value in the period in which they are incurred and are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the related long-lived assets. PSE&G, as a rate-regulated entity, recognizes Regulatory Assets or Liabilities as a result of timing differences between the recording of costs and costs recovered through the rate-making process. We accrete the ARO liability to reflect the passage of time with the corresponding expense recorded in O&M Expense.

Assumptions and Approach Used: Because quoted market prices are not available for AROs, we estimate the initial fair value of an ARO by calculating discounted cash flows that are dependent upon various assumptions, including:

•estimation of dates for retirement, which can be dependent on environmental and other legislation,

•amounts and timing of future cash expenditures associated with retirement, settlement or remediation activities,

•discount rates,

•cost escalation rates,

•market risk premium,

•inflation rates, and

•if applicable, past experience with government regulators regarding similar obligations.

We obtain updated cost studies triennially unless new information necessitates more frequent updates. The most recent cost study was done in 2018. When we revise any assumptions used to calculate fair values of existing AROs, we adjust the ARO balance and corresponding long-lived asset which generally impacts the amount of accretion and depreciation expense recognized in future periods. 

Nuclear Decommissioning AROs

AROs related to the future decommissioning of PSEG Power’s nuclear facilities comprised 95% or $740 million of PSEG Power’s total AROs as of December 31, 2019. PSEG Power determines its AROs for its nuclear units by assigning probability weighting to various discounted cash flow outcomes for each of its nuclear units that incorporate the assumptions above as well as:

•financial feasibility and impacts on potential early shutdown,

•license renewals,

•SAFSTOR alternative, which assumes the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decommissioned in a period within 60 years after operations,

•DECON alternative, which assumes decommissioning activities begin after operations, and 

•recovery from the federal government of costs incurred for spent nuclear fuel.

Effect if Different Assumptions Used: Changes in the assumptions could result in a material change in the ARO balance sheet obligation and the period over which we accrete to the ultimate liability. Had the following assumptions been applied, our estimates of the approximate impacts on the Nuclear ARO as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

63
•If we were not reimbursed by the federal government for spent fuel costs as prescribed under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the Nuclear ARO would increase by $379 million.

•If we would elect or be required to decommission under a DECON alternative at Salem and Hope Creek, the Nuclear ARO would increase by $675 million. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Accounting for Regulated Businesses 

PSE&G prepares its financial statements to comply with GAAP for rate-regulated enterprises, which differs in some respects from accounting for non-regulated businesses. In general, accounting for rate-regulated enterprises should reflect the economic effects of regulation. As a result, a regulated utility is required to defer the recognition of costs (Regulatory Asset) or recognize obligations (Regulatory Liability) if the rates established are designed to recover the costs and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged or collected. This accounting results in the recognition of revenues and expenses in different time periods than that of enterprises that are not regulated.

Assumptions and Approach Used: PSE&G recognizes Regulatory Assets where it is probable that such costs will be recoverable in future rates from customers and Regulatory Liabilities where it is probable that refunds will be made to customers in future billings. The highest degree of probability is an order from the BPU either approving recovery of the deferred costs over a future period or requiring the refund of a liability over a future period.

Virtually all of PSE&G’s Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities are supported by BPU orders. In the absence of an order, PSE&G will consider the following when determining whether to record a Regulatory Asset or Liability:

•past experience regarding similar items with the BPU,

•treatment of a similar item in an order by the BPU for another utility,

•passage of new legislation, and

•recent discussions with the BPU.

All deferred costs are subject to prudence reviews by the BPU. When the recovery of a Regulatory Asset or payment of a Regulatory Liability is no longer probable, PSE&G charges or credits earnings, as appropriate.

Effect if Different Assumptions Used: A change in the above assumptions may result in a material impact on our results of operations or our cash flows. See Item 8. Note 7. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities for a description of the amounts and nature of regulatory balance sheet amounts.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT