PART I

Item 1.Business

Overview

Transocean Ltd. (together with its subsidiaries and predecessors, unless the context requires otherwise, “Transocean,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our”) is a leading international provider of offshore contract drilling services for oil and gas wells. As of February 12, 2020, we owned or had partial ownership interests in and operated a fleet of 45 mobile offshore drilling units, consisting of 28 ultra-deepwater floaters, 14 harsh environment floaters and three midwater floaters. As of February 12, 2020, we were constructing two ultra-deepwater drillships.

Our primary business is to contract our drilling rigs, related equipment and work crews predominantly on a dayrate basis to drill oil and gas wells. We specialize in technically demanding regions of the global offshore drilling business with a particular focus on ultra-deepwater and harsh environment drilling services. Our mobile offshore drilling fleet is one of the most versatile fleets in the world, consisting of drillship and semisubmersible floaters used in support of offshore drilling activities and offshore support services on a worldwide basis.

Transocean Ltd. is a Swiss corporation with its registered office in Steinhausen, Canton of Zug and with principal executive offices located at Turmstrasse 30, 6312 Zug, Switzerland. Our telephone number at that address is +41 41 749-0500. Our shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “RIG.” For information about the revenues, operating income, assets and other information related to our business, our segments and the geographic areas in which we operate, see “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 22—Operating Segments, Geographic Analysis and Major Customers.”

Drilling Fleet

Overview—Our drilling fleet of floaters consists of drillships and semisubmersibles, which are mobile and can be moved to new locations in response to customer demand. Our drilling equipment is suitable for both exploration and development, and we engage in both types of drilling activity. Our mobile offshore drilling units are designed to operate in locations away from port for extended periods of time and have living quarters for the crews, a helicopter landing deck and storage space for drill pipe, riser and drilling supplies.

Drillships are generally self-propelled vessels, shaped like conventional ships, and are the most mobile of the major rig types. Our high-specification drillships are equipped with dynamic positioning thruster systems, which allows them to maintain position without anchors through the use of onboard propulsion and station-keeping systems. Ultra-deepwater drillships typically have greater deck load and storage capacity than early generation semisubmersible rigs, which provides logistical and resupply efficiency benefits for customers. Drillships are generally better suited to operations in calmer sea conditions and typically do not operate in areas considered to be harsh environments. We have 22 ultra-deepwater drillships that are, and two ultra-deepwater drillships under construction that will be, equipped with our patented dual-activity technology. Dual-activity technology employs structures, equipment and techniques using two drilling stations within a dual derrick to allow these drillships to perform simultaneous drilling tasks in a parallel, rather than a sequential manner, which reduces critical path activity and improves efficiency in both exploration and development drilling. In addition to dynamic positioning thruster systems, dual-activity technology and industry-leading hoisting capacity, our contracted newbuild drillship under construction will be equipped with and our uncontracted newbuild drillship will be equipped to accommodate two 20,000 pounds per square inch (“psi”) blowout preventers.

Semisubmersibles are floating vessels that can be partially submerged by means of a water ballast system such that the lower column sections and pontoons are below the water surface during drilling operations. Semisubmersibles are known for stability, making them well suited for operating in rough sea conditions. Semisubmersible floaters are capable of maintaining their position over a well either through dynamic positioning or the use of mooring systems. Although most semisubmersible rigs are relocated with the assistance of tugs, some units are self-propelled and move between locations under their own power when afloat on pontoons. Five of our 21 semisubmersibles are equipped with dual-activity technology and also have mooring capability. Two of these five dual-activity units are custom-designed, high capacity semisubmersible drilling rigs, equipped for year-round operations in harsh environments, including those of the Norwegian continental shelf and sub-Arctic waters.

Fleet categories—We further categorize the drilling units of our fleet as follows: (1) “ultra-deepwater floaters,” (2) “harsh environment floaters” and (3) “midwater floaters”. Ultra-deepwater floaters are equipped with high-pressure mud pumps and are capable of drilling in water depths of 4,500 feet or greater. Harsh environment floaters are capable of drilling in harsh environments in water depths between 1,500 and 10,000 feet and have greater displacement, which offers larger variable load capacity, more useable deck space and better motion characteristics. Midwater floaters are generally comprised of those non-high-specification semisubmersibles that have a water depth capacity of less than 4,500 feet.

Fleet status—Depending on market conditions, we may idle or stack non-contracted rigs. An idle rig is between drilling contracts, readily available for operations, and operating costs are typically at or near normal operating levels. A stacked rig typically has reduced operating costs, is staffed by a reduced crew or has no crew and is (a) preparing for an extended period of inactivity, (b) expected to continue to be inactive for an extended period, or (c) completing a period of extended inactivity. Stacked rigs will continue to incur operating costs at 

- 2 - 
or above normal operating levels for approximately 30 days following initiation of stacking. Some idle rigs and all stacked rigs require additional costs to return to service. The actual cost to return to service, which in many instances could be significant and could fluctuate over time, depends upon various factors, including the availability and cost of shipyard facilities, the cost of equipment and materials and the extent of repairs and maintenance that may ultimately be required. We consider these factors, together with market conditions, length of contract, dayrate and other contract terms, when deciding whether to return a stacked rig to service. We may not return some stacked rigs to work for drilling services.

Drilling units—The following tables, presented as of February 14, 2020, provide certain specifications for our rigs. Unless otherwise noted, the stated location of each rig indicates either the current drilling location, if the rig is operating, or the next operating location, if the rig is in shipyard with a follow-on contract. The dates provided represent the expected time of completion, the year placed into service, and, if applicable, the year of the most recent upgrade. As of February 14, 2020, we owned all of the drilling rigs in our fleet noted in the tables below, except for the following: (1) the harsh environment floater Transocean Norge, which is owned through our 33.0 percent ownership interest in Orion Holdings (Cayman) Limited (together with its subsidiary, “Orion”), , and (2) the ultra-deepwater floater Petrobras 10000, which is subject to a finance lease through August 2029.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)

To be dynamically positioned.

(b)

To be equipped with our patented dual activity.

(c)

To be equipped with two blowout preventers.

(d)

Designed to accommodate a future upgrade to 20,000 pounds psi blowout preventers.

(e)

To be equipped with two 20,000 pounds psi blowout preventers.

​

- 3 - 
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Dynamically positioned.

(b)Patented dual activity.

(c)Two blowout preventers.

(d)Designed to accommodate a future upgrade to 20,000 pounds psi blowout preventers.

(e)Enhanced Enterprise-class rig.

(f)Moored.

(g)Dual activity.

​

- 4 - 
Markets

Our operations are geographically dispersed in oil and gas exploration and development areas throughout the world. We operate in a single, global offshore drilling market, as our drilling rigs are mobile assets and can be moved according to prevailing market conditions. We may mobilize our drilling rigs between regions for a variety of reasons, including to respond to customer contracting requirements or to capture observed market demand. Consequently, we cannot predict the future percentage of our revenues that will be derived from particular geographic areas. As of February 14, 2020, our drilling fleet, including stacked and idle rigs, but excluding rigs under construction, was located in the Norwegian North Sea (ten units), the U.S. Gulf of Mexico (eight units), Greece (seven units), the U.K. North Sea (five units), Brazil (three units), Canada (two units), Australia (two units), Malaysia (one unit), Angola (one unit), India (one unit), Egypt (one unit), Brunei (one unit), Equatorial Guinea (one unit), Namibia (one unit), and Romania (one unit).

We categorize the market sectors in which we operate as follows: (1) ultra-deepwater and deepwater, (2) harsh environment and (3) midwater. These market sectors, collectively known as the floater market, are serviced by our drillships and semisubmersibles, 14 of which are suited to work in harsh environments. We generally view the ultra-deepwater and deepwater market sector as water depths beginning at 4,500 feet and extending to the maximum water depths in which rigs are capable of drilling, which is currently up to 12,000 feet. The midwater market sector services water depths from approximately 300 feet to approximately 4,500 feet. The harsh environment market sector services regions that are more challenged by lower temperatures, harsher weather conditions and water currents.

The market for offshore drilling rigs and related services reflects oil companies’ demand for equipment for drilling exploration, appraisal and development wells and for performing maintenance on existing production wells. Activity levels of energy companies, including integrated oil companies, independent oil companies and, to a lesser extent, national oil companies are largely driven by the worldwide demand for energy, including crude oil and natural gas. Worldwide energy supply and demand drives oil and natural gas prices, which, in turn, impact energy companies’ ability to fund investments in exploration, development and production activities.

Since 2014, the industry has experienced a severe, prolonged cyclical downturn. Multiple years of volatile and generally weak commodity prices have resulted in our customers delaying offshore investment decisions and postponing exploration and development programs. Structural efficiency gains achieved by industry participants in reaction to the downturn have provided customers more incentive to progress exploration and development plans in a lower commodity pricing environment, which resulted in increased customer project sanctioning in 2019. We anticipate this trend of increased project sanctioning to continue in 2020 as our customers continue to realize favorable offshore economics, reducing their sensitivity to market volatility, and increasing their focus on exploration and reserve replacement. Ultimately, as the hydrocarbon supply-demand balance improves, we expect a longer term sustained improvement of oil prices, that is expected to translate into greater demand for our fleet, resulting in further improvement of dayrates.

In markets requiring harsh environment floating drilling rigs, the limited supply of these specialized, high-specification rigs has continued to result in strong utilization and dayrate. In the ultra-deepwater markets, persistently improving supply-demand dynamics is now positively impacting both utilization and dayrates. With an increasing number of projects coming from deepwater and ultra-deepwater basins worldwide, we expect this trend to continue.

We have made concerted efforts since the beginning of the downturn to high-grade our fleet profile by acquiring additional high-specification assets and disposing of lower-specification assets. In the year ended December 31, 2018, we significantly enhanced our high-specification asset portfolio with our acquisitions of Songa Offshore SE(“Songa”), a European public company limited by shares, or societas Europaea, existing under the laws of Cyprus, and Ocean Rig UDW Inc. (“Ocean Rig”), a Cayman Islands exempted company with limited liability, and our investment in a partial ownership interest in an unconsolidated affiliate that owns the harsh environment floater Transocean Norge. During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we sold for scrap value eleven, eight and three lower-specification drilling units, respectively.

Our outlook for the offshore drilling sector remains positive, particularly for high-specification assets. Brazil, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and West Africa remain key ultra-deepwater market sectors, while Norway represents the largest harsh environment market. Licensing activity demonstrated an increased interest in these areas as energy companies looked to explore and develop new prospects. We expect deepwater oil and gas production will continue to be the primary part of the long-term strategy for energy companies as they strive to replace reserves to meet global demand for energy sources and hydrocarbons. As our customers continue to achieve structural efficiency gains, we anticipate additional offshore projects will be sanctioned. Often, these projects are technically demanding due to factors such as water depth, complex well designs, deeper drilling depth, high pressure and temperature, sub-salt, harsh environments, and heightened regulatory standards; therefore, they require high-specification drilling units. Generally, high-specification rigs are the most modern, technologically advanced class of the offshore fleet and have capabilities that are attractive to energy companies operating in deeper water depths, other challenging environments or with complex well designs. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks related to our business.”

Contract Drilling Services

Our contracts to provide offshore drilling services are individually negotiated and vary in their terms and conditions. We obtain most of our drilling contracts through competitive bidding against other contractors and direct negotiations with operators. Drilling contracts generally provide for payment on a dayrate basis, with higher rates for periods while the drilling unit is operating and lower rates or zero rate for periods of mobilization or when drilling operations are interrupted or restricted by equipment breakdowns, adverse environmental 

- 5 - 
conditions or other conditions beyond our control. A dayrate drilling contract generally extends over a period of time covering either the drilling of a single well or group of wells or covering a stated term. At December 31, 2019, our contract backlog was approximately $10.4 billion, representing a decrease of 17 percent and an increase of 9 percent, respectively, compared to the contract backlog at December 31, 2018 and 2017, which was $12.5 billion and $9.5 billion, respectively. See “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Performance and Other Key Indicators.”

Certain of our drilling contracts may be cancelable for the convenience of the customer upon payment of an early termination payment. Such payments, however, may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Contracts also customarily provide for either automatic termination or termination at the option of the customer, typically without the payment of any termination fee, under various circumstances such as non-performance, in the event of extended downtime or impaired performance caused by equipment or operational issues, or periods of extended downtime due to force majeure events. Many of these events are beyond our control. The contract term in some instances may be extended by the customer exercising options for the drilling of additional wells or for an additional term. Our contracts also typically include a provision that allows the customer to extend the contract to finish drilling a well-in-progress. During periods of depressed market conditions, our customers may seek to renegotiate firm drilling contracts to reduce the term of their obligations or the average dayrate through term extensions, or may seek to repudiate their contracts. Suspension of drilling contracts will result in the reduction in or loss of dayrate for the period of the suspension. If our customers cancel some of our contracts and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, if contracts are suspended for an extended period of time or if a number of our contracts are renegotiated, it could adversely affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks related to our business—Our drilling contracts may be terminated due to a number of events, and, during depressed market conditions, our customers may seek to repudiate or renegotiate their contracts.”

Under dayrate drilling contracts, consistent with standard industry practice, our customers, as the operators, generally assume, and grant indemnity for, subsurface and well control risks, and their consequential damages. Under all of our current drilling contracts, our customers, indemnify us for pollution damages in connection with reservoir fluids stemming from operations under the contract, and we indemnify our customers for pollution that originates above the surface of the water from the rig from substances in our control, such as diesel used onboard the rig or other fluids stored onboard the rig. Also, our customers indemnify us for consequential damages they incur, damage to the well or reservoir, loss of subsurface oil and gas and the cost of bringing the well under control. However, our drilling contracts are individually negotiated, and the degree of indemnification we receive from our customers for the risks discussed above may vary from contract to contract, based on market conditions and customer requirements existing when the contract was negotiated. In some instances, we have contractually agreed upon certain limits to our indemnification rights and can be responsible for damages up to a specified maximum dollar amount. The nature of our liability and the prevailing market conditions, among other factors, can influence such contractual terms. In most instances in which we are indemnified for damages to the well, we have the responsibility to redrill the well at a reduced dayrate. Notwithstanding a contractual indemnity from a customer, there can be no assurance that our customers will be financially able to indemnify us or will otherwise honor their contractual indemnity obligations. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks related to our business—Our business involves numerous operating hazards, and our insurance and indemnities from our customers may not be adequate to cover potential losses from our operations.”

The interpretation and enforceability of a contractual indemnity depends upon the specific facts and circumstances involved, as governed by applicable laws, and may ultimately need to be decided by a court or other proceeding, which will need to consider the specific contract language, the facts and applicable laws. The law generally considers contractual indemnity for criminal fines and penalties to be against public policy. Courts also restrict indemnification for criminal fines and penalties. The inability or other failure of our customers to fulfill their indemnification obligations, or unenforceability of our contractual protections could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Significant Customers

We engage in offshore drilling services for most of the leading integrated oil companies or their affiliates, as well as for many government-owned or government-controlled oil companies and other independent oil companies. For the year ended December 31, 2019, our most significant customers were Royal Dutch Shell plc (together with its affiliates, “Shell”), Equinor ASA (together with its affiliates, “Equinor”) and Chevron Corporation (together with its affiliates, “Chevron”), representing approximately 26 percent, 21 percent and 17 percent, respectively, of our consolidated operating revenues. No other customers accounted for 10 percent or more of our consolidated operating revenues in the year ended December 31, 2019. Additionally, as of February 14, 2020, the customers with the most significant aggregate amount of contract backlog associated with our drilling contracts were Shell, Equinor and Chevron, representing approximately 49 percent, 26 percent and 13 percent, respectively, of our total contract backlog. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks related to our business—We rely heavily on a relatively small number of customers and the loss of a significant customer or a dispute that leads to the loss of a customer could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.”

Employees

We require highly skilled personnel to operate our drilling units. Consequently, we conduct extensive personnel recruiting, training and safety programs. At December 31, 2019, we had approximately 6,600 employees, including approximately 700 persons engaged through contract labor providers. Approximately 47 percent of our total workforce, working primarily in Norway, Brazil, the U.K., Angola and 

- 6 - 
Australia are represented by, and some of our contracted labor work is subject to, collective bargaining agreements, substantially all of which are subject to annual salary negotiation. These negotiations sometimes result in strikes and could result in higher personnel expenses, other increased costs or increased operational restrictions as the outcome of such negotiations affect the market for all offshore employees, not just the union members. Additionally, failure to reach agreement on certain key issues may result in strikes, lockouts or other work stoppages that may materially impact our operations.

Joint Venture, Agency and Sponsorship Relationships and Other Investments

In some areas of the world, local customs and practice or governmental requirements necessitate the formation of joint ventures with local participation since local laws or customs in those areas effectively mandate the establishment of a relationship with a local agent or sponsor. When appropriate in these areas, we enter into agency or sponsorship agreements. We may also enter into joint ventures for operational or investment purposes. We may or may not control these joint ventures. At December 31, 2019, we held interests in certain joint venture companies in the Cayman Islands, Nigeria, Angola, Indonesia and other countries, the most significant of which was our 33.0 percent ownership interest in Orion, an unconsolidated Cayman Islands exempted company formed to construct and own the harsh environment semisubmersible Transocean Norge. Certain affiliates of Hayfin Capital Management LLP, own the remaining 67.0 percent ownership interest in Orion not owned by us.

Technological Innovation

We have a long history of technological innovation, including the first dynamically positioned drillship, the first rig to drill year-round in the North Sea, the first semisubmersible rig for year-round sub-Arctic operations, the first 10,000-ft. water depth rated ultra-deepwater drillship and numerous water depth world records over the past several decades. Twenty-two drillships and three semisubmersibles in our existing fleet are, and our two drillships that are under construction will be, equipped with our patented dual-activity technology, which allows our rigs to perform simultaneous drilling tasks in a parallel rather than sequential manner, reducing well construction critical path activities and, thereby, improving efficiency in both exploration and development drilling.

We continue to develop and deploy industry-leading technology in the pursuit of delivering safer, more efficient and environmentally responsible drilling services. In addition to our patented dual-activity drilling technology, two of our drillships under construction will include industry-leading 3 million-pound hook load capability, hybrid power systems for enhanced drill floor equipment reliability, fuel and emissions savings as well as advanced generator protection for power plant reliability. Nine drillships in our existing fleet are, and our two drillships that are under construction will be, outfitted with dual blowout preventers and triple liquid mud systems. In late 2018, we contracted and are outfitting one drillship that is under construction with a dual 20,000 psi blowout preventer and related equipment. Five drillships in our existing fleet are, and our uncontracted drillship that is under construction will be, designed to accept 20,000 psi blowout preventers in the future.

Seven of our harsh environment semisubmersibles are designed and constructed specifically to provide highly efficient performance in the Norwegian North Sea and in the Barents Sea. In 2019, we deployed the world’s first hybrid energy storage system aboard a floating drilling unit, the harsh environment floater Transocean Spitsbergen, which is the first solution to reduce fuel consumption and emissions while providing enhanced power management reliability. We also continue to develop and invest in technologies designed to optimize our performance and deliver ever better operational integrity through innovations, such as our proprietary fault-resistant and fault-tolerant blowout preventer control system. We have installed automated drilling control systems on one harsh environment floater and are proceeding with five additional harsh environment floaters, which materially improve our ability to safely and efficiently deliver wells to our customers.

We have also deployed our smart equipment analytics tool, which delivers real-time data feeds from equipment and is used to monitor equipment health and inferred emissions and energy consumption. This technology can also identify trends in performance that allow us to systematically optimize equipment maintenance and achieve higher levels of reliability, operational efficiency and sustainability. This data-driven approach, augmented by the size of our fleet, is helping us build a knowledge framework for sustainable process optimization. Additionally, our continued, acute focus on personnel safety has driven development of our HaloGuard system, which will alarm, notify and, if required, halt equipment to avoid injury to personnel who move into danger zones.

We believe our efforts to continuously improve, and effectively use, innovative technologies to meet or exceed our customers’ requirements is critical to maintaining our competitive position within the contract drilling services industry by drilling more efficient wells, building greater resilience into our critical operating systems, ensuring the safety of our crews, and reducing fuel consumption and emissions.

Environmental Responsibility

We constantly look for new ways to advance our commitment to safely performing our operations while simultaneously safeguarding the environment in which we operate. We assess the environmental impacts of our operations, focusing on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, operational discharges and water use, through increasing energy efficiency and waste minimization. Our actions are designed to reduce risk in our current and future operations, to promote sound environmental management practices and to continue to be proactive in managing and reducing our environmental footprint. Our investments and deployment of capital and technology reflect our commitment to improve the energy and emission efficiency of our operations.

- 7 - 
When we have decommissioned older and less capable assets, we have demonstrated our commitment to recycle them according to established environmental regulations and guidelines. All the rigs that we have sold for scrap value have been safely and responsibly recycled following protocols established under the Basel Convention and by the International Maritime Organization at the Hong Kong International Convention. Although this greater degree of scrutiny requires more of our resources, we are committed to identifying and deploying sustainable solutions throughout the life cycle of our assets.

Our operations are subject to a variety of international, regional, national, state and local environmental regulations. We monitor our compliance with environmental regulation in each country of operation and, while we see an increase in general environmental regulation, we have made and will continue to make the required expenditures to comply with current and future environmental requirements. To date, we have not incurred material costs in order to comply with recent environmental regulation, and we do not believe that our compliance with such requirements will have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, consolidated results of operations or cash flows. For a discussion of the effects of environmental regulation, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks related to our business—Impact of our compliance with or breach of environmental laws can be costly, expose us to liability and could limit our operations.”

Available Information

Our website address is www.deepwater.com. Information contained on or accessible from our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered a part of this report or any other filing that we make with the SEC. We make available on this website free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those materials with, or furnish those materials to, the SEC. You may also find on our website information related to our corporate governance, board committees and company code of business conduct and ethics. The SEC also maintains a website, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including us. We intend to satisfy the requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K to disclose any amendments to our Code of Integrity and any waiver from any provision of our Code of Integrity by posting such information in the Governance page on our website at www.deepwater.com.

Item 1A.Risk Factors