Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following information should be read in conjunction with the information contained in “Part I. Item 1. Business,” “Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors” and the audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” elsewhere in this annual report. The following discussion of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources includes comparisons for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. For a discussion of comparisons for our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources for the years ended 2018 and 2017, see “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the United States (“U.S.”) Securities and Exchange Commission on February 19, 2019.

Business

Transocean Ltd. (together with its subsidiaries and predecessors, unless the context requires otherwise, “Transocean,” “we,” “us” or “our”) is a leading international provider of offshore contract drilling services for oil and gas wells. As of February 12, 2020, we owned or had partial ownership interests in and operated 45 mobile offshore drilling units, including 28 ultra-deepwater floaters, 14 harsh environment floaters and three midwater floaters. As of February 12, 2020, we were constructing two ultra-deepwater drillships.

We provide contract drilling services in a single, global operating segment, which involves contracting our mobile offshore drilling fleet, related equipment and work crews primarily on a dayrate basis to drill oil and gas wells. We specialize in technically demanding regions of the offshore drilling business with a particular focus on ultra-deepwater and harsh environment drilling services. Our drilling fleet is one of the most versatile fleets in the world, consisting of drillships and semisubmersible floaters used in support of offshore drilling activities and offshore support services on a worldwide basis.

Our contract drilling services operations are geographically dispersed in oil and gas exploration and development areas throughout the world. Although rigs can be moved from one region to another, the cost of moving rigs and the availability of rig-moving vessels may cause the supply and demand balance to fluctuate somewhat between regions. Still, significant variations between regions do not tend to persist long term because of rig mobility. Our fleet operates in a single, global market for the provision of contract drilling services. The location of our rigs and the allocation of resources to operate, build or upgrade our rigs are determined by the activities and needs of our customers.

Significant Events

Debt issuances—On February 1, 2019, we issued $550 million aggregate principal amount of 6.875% senior secured notes due February 2027 (the “6.875% Senior Secured Notes”), and we received $539 million aggregate cash proceeds, net of discount and issue costs. On May 24, 2019, we issued $525 million aggregate principal amount of 5.375% senior secured notes due May 2023 (the “5.375% Senior Secured Notes”), and we received $517 million aggregate cash proceeds, net of discount and issue costs. On January 17, 2020, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 8.00% senior unsecured notes due February 2027 (the “8.00% Senior Notes”), and we received $743 million aggregate cash proceeds, net of issue costs. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and uses of liquidity.”

Early debt retirement—During the year ended December 31, 2019, we completed cash tender offers to purchase certain notes (the “2019 Tendered Notes”). In the year ended December 31, 2019, we made an aggregate cash payment of $522 million to settle the validly tendered 2019 Tendered Notes and recognized a loss of $18 million associated with the retirement of debt. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and uses of liquidity.”

During the year ended December 31, 2019, we repurchased in the open market $434 million aggregate principal amount of certain of our debt securities. We made an aggregate cash payment of $449 million and recognized an aggregate net loss of $23 million associated with the retirement of such debt. See “—Operating Results” and “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and uses of liquidity.”

Debt redemption—On January 17, 2020, we provided a notice to redeem in full our outstanding 9.00% senior notes due July 2023 (the “9.00% Senior Notes”), and on February 18, 2020, we made a payment of $767 million, including the make-whole provision, to redeem the notes and in the three months ending March 31, 2020, we expect to recognize a loss of approximately $66 million associated with the retirement of debt. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and uses of liquidity.”

Impairments—In the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized an aggregate loss of $583 million primarily associated with the impairment of three ultra-deepwater floaters, along with related assets, which we determined were impaired at the time we classified the assets as held for sale. See “—Operating Results.”

Fleet expansion—We hold a 33.0 percent interest in Orion Holdings (Cayman) Limited (together with its subsidiary, “Orion”), the company that, through its wholly owned subsidiary, owns the harsh environment floater Transocean Norge. In August 2019, Orion completed construction of the rig and placed it into service. One of our subsidiaries operates the rig under a short-term bareboat charter to complete a six-well drilling contract for one of our customers. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Drilling fleet.”

- 26 - 
In October 2019, we agreed with Samsung Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. (“SHI”) to cancel the construction contracts for two ultra-deepwater drillships in exchange for the parties terminating their respective obligations and liabilities under the contracts and our subsidiaries releasing to SHI their respective interests in the rigs. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Drilling fleet.”

Dispositions—During the year ended December 31, 2019, we completed the sale of six ultra-deepwater floaters, one harsh environment floater, two deepwater floaters and two midwater floaters, along with related assets, and we received $64 million in aggregate net cash proceeds. See “—Operating Results” and “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Drilling fleet.”

Secured Credit Facility—In June 2018, we entered into a bank credit agreement, which established a $1.0 billion secured revolving credit facility (the “Secured Credit Facility”), and in the year ended December 31, 2019, we amended the terms of the agreement to, among other changes, increase the borrowing capacity to $1.3 billion. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and uses of liquidity.”

Outlook

Drilling market—Our view of the offshore drilling floater market is positive and continues to improve, especially for the highest specification vessels. Contracting activity has strengthened, as both fixture durations and dayrates are increasing. In the past five years, the offshore oil and gas industry has achieved structural efficiency gains that have substantially improved the economics of offshore development projects. These efficiency gains have resulted in project break-even oil prices in the range of $40 per barrel or below in many operating basins, which compares increasingly favorably to onshore shale prospects, and positively impacts our customers’ investment decisions.

Markets requiring high-specification harsh environment floating drilling rigs continue to see high utilization of the active fleet. Over the past year, opportunities have steadily increased for our drilling services, and we have recently observed escalating dayrates in almost all jurisdictions. In particular, we have seen a marked tightening in global demand for ultra-deepwater drilling rigs, especially in the Americas and Australia where dayrates continue to climb. As utilization for ultra-deepwater floaters grows, active supply is approaching full utilization in many regions, and tender activity has increased. As a result, we are seeing some of the highest dayrates since the beginning of the downturn in 2014, particularly for the latest generation and highest capability units. We expect this trend to continue through 2020 and beyond.

As of February 14, 2020, our contract backlog was $10.2 billion compared to $10.8 billion as of October 17, 2019. The risks of drilling project delays, contract renegotiations and contract terminations and cancellations have diminished as oil prices have improved and stabilized.

Fleet status—We refer to the availability of our rigs in terms of the uncommitted fleet rate. The uncommitted fleet rate is defined as the number of uncommitted days divided by the total number of rig calendar days in the measurement period, expressed as a percentage. An uncommitted day is defined as a calendar day during which a rig is idle or stacked, is not contracted to a customer and is not committed to a shipyard. The uncommitted fleet rates exclude the effect of priced options.

As of February 14, 2020, the uncommitted fleet rates for each of the five years in the period ending December 31, 2024 were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Performance and Other Key Indicators

Contract backlog—Contract backlog is defined as the maximum contractual operating dayrate multiplied by the number of days remaining in the firm contract period, excluding revenues for mobilization, demobilization, contract preparation, other incentive provisions or reimbursement revenues, which are not expected to be significant to our contract drilling revenues. The contract backlog represents the maximum contract drilling revenues that can be earned considering the contractual operating dayrate in effect during the firm contract period.

The contract backlog for our fleet was as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

- 27 - 
Our contract backlog includes only firm commitments, which are represented by signed drilling contracts or, in some cases, by other definitive agreements awaiting contract execution. Our contract backlog includes amounts associated with our contracted newbuild unit that is currently under construction. The contractual operating dayrate may be higher than the actual dayrate we ultimately receive or an alternative contractual dayrate, such as a waiting-on-weather rate, repair rate, standby rate or force majeure rate, may apply under certain circumstances. The contractual operating dayrate may also be higher than the actual dayrate we ultimately receive because of a number of factors, including rig downtime or suspension of operations. In certain contracts, the dayrate may be reduced to zero if, for example, repairs extend beyond a stated period of time.

Average contractual dayrate relative to our contract backlog is defined as the average maximum contractual operating dayrate to be earned per operating day in the measurement period. An operating day is defined as a day for which a rig is contracted to earn a dayrate during the firm contract period after operations commence.

At February 14, 2020, the contract backlog and average contractual dayrates for our fleet were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The actual amounts of revenues earned and the actual periods during which revenues are earned will differ from the amounts and periods shown in the tables above due to various factors, including shipyard and maintenance projects, unplanned downtime and other factors that result in lower applicable dayrates than the full contractual operating dayrate. Additional factors that could affect the amount and timing of actual revenue to be recognized include customer liquidity issues and contract terminations, which may be available to our customers under certain circumstances.

Average daily revenue—Average daily revenue is defined as contract drilling revenues, excluding revenues for contract terminations, reimbursements and contract intangible amortization, earned per operating day. An operating day is defined as a calendar day during which a rig is contracted to earn a dayrate during the firm contract period after commencement of operations. The average daily revenue for our fleet was as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our average daily revenue fluctuates relative to market conditions and our revenue efficiency. The average daily revenue may be affected by revenues for lump sum bonuses or demobilization fees received from our customers. Our total fleet average daily revenue is also affected by the mix of rig classes being operated, as deepwater floaters, midwater floaters and high-specification jackups are typically contracted at lower dayrates compared to ultra-deepwater floaters and harsh environment floaters. We no longer operate deepwater floaters or high-specification jackups. We include newbuilds in the calculation when the rigs commence operations upon acceptance by the customer. We remove rigs from the calculation upon disposal or classification as held for sale, unless we continue to operate rigs subsequent to sale, in which case we remove the rigs at the time of completion or novation of the contract.

- 28 - 
Revenue efficiency—Revenue efficiency is defined as actual contract drilling revenues, excluding revenues for contract terminations and reimbursements, for the measurement period divided by the maximum revenue calculated for the measurement period, expressed as a percentage. Maximum revenue is defined as the greatest amount of contract drilling revenues, excluding revenues for contract terminations and reimbursements, the drilling unit could earn for the measurement period, excluding amounts related to incentive provisions. The revenue efficiency rates for our fleet were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our revenue efficiency rate varies due to revenues earned under alternative contractual dayrates, such as a waiting-on-weather rate, repair rate, standby rate, force majeure rate or zero rate, that may apply under certain circumstances. Our revenue efficiency rate is also affected by incentive performance bonuses or penalties. We include newbuilds in the calculation when the rigs commence operations upon acceptance by the customer. We exclude rigs that are not operating under contract, such as those that are stacked.

Rig utilization—Rig utilization is defined as the total number of operating days divided by the total number of rig calendar days in the measurement period, expressed as a percentage. The rig utilization rates for our fleet were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our rig utilization rate declines as a result of idle and stacked rigs and during shipyard and mobilization periods to the extent these rigs are not earning revenues. We include newbuilds in the calculation when the rigs commence operations upon acceptance by the customer. We remove rigs from the calculation upon disposal, classification as held for sale. Accordingly, our rig utilization can increase when idle or stacked units are removed from our drilling fleet.

- 29 - 
Operating Results

Year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018

The following is an analysis of our operating results. See “—Performance and Other Key Indicators” for definitions of operating days, average daily revenue, revenue efficiency and rig utilization.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

“nm” means not meaningful.

Contract drilling revenues—Contract drilling revenues increased for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $265 million resulting from operations acquired in the Ocean Rig UDW Inc. (“Ocean Rig”), a Cayman Islands exempted company with limited liability and Songa Offshore SE (“Songa”), a European public company limited by shares, or societas Europaea, existing under the laws of Cyprus acquisitions, (b) approximately $95 million resulting from the reactivation of two rigs, (c) approximately $65 million resulting from higher revenue efficiency and (d) approximately $65 million resulting from the operations of a newbuild ultra-deepwater drillship and a harsh environment semisubmersible placed into service in 2018 and 2019, respectively. These increases were partially offset by the following: (a) approximately $190 million resulting from rigs sold or classified as held for sale, (b) approximately $125 million resulting from contract early terminations and cancellations recognized in the year ended December 31, 2018, (c) approximately $65 million resulting from reduced activity and (d) approximately $45 million resulting from lower dayrates.

Costs and expenses—Operating and maintenance expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $265 million resulting from operations acquired in the Ocean Rig acquisition, including the reactivation of two rigs, (b) approximately $90 million resulting from shipyard activities, (c) approximately $45 million resulting from operations of a newbuild ultra-deepwater drillship and a harsh environment semisubmersible placed into service in 2018 and 2019, respectively and (d) approximately $40 million resulting from the reactivation of two rigs. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of approximately $95 million resulting from rigs sold or classified as held for sale.

Depreciation and amortization expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to approximately $80 million resulting from the rigs acquired in the Songa and Ocean Rig acquisitions, partially offset by approximately $43 million resulting from rigs sold or classified as held for sale.

General and administrative expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $10 million resulting from personnel and other costs related to Ocean Rig recognized in the year ended December 31, 2019, (b) approximately $9 million resulting from increased legal and professional fees (c) approximately $7 million resulting from increased rent expense and (d) approximately $4 million resulting from recovery of legal fees recognized in the year ended December 31, 2018. These increases were partially offset by the following decreases: (a) approximately $24 million resulting from acquisition costs recognized in the year ended December 31, 2018 and (b) approximately $4 million resulting from reduced personnel costs, primarily related to the early retirement of certain personnel in the year ended December 31, 2018.

Loss on impairment or disposal of assets—In the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized an aggregate loss of $583 million, primarily associated with certain assets that we determined were impaired at the time we classified them as held for sale, and 

- 30 - 
an aggregate loss of $26 million associated with the impairment of right-of-use assets and leasehold improvements. In the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized an aggregate loss of $999 million associated with certain assets that we determined were impaired at the time we classified them as held for sale and a loss of $462 million associated with the impairment of goodwill.

In the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized an aggregate gain of $4 million associated with the sale of six ultra-deepwater floaters, one harsh environment floater, two deepwater floaters and two midwater floaters, along with related assets. In the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized an aggregate gain of $7 million associated with the sale of six ultra-deepwater floaters, one deepwater floater and one midwater floater, along with related assets. In the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we recognized an aggregate loss of $16 million and $7 million, respectively, associated with the disposal of assets unrelated to rig sales.

Other income and expense—Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, increased in the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to an increase of approximately $147 million primarily resulting from debt issued subsequent to January 1, 2018, partially offset by a decrease of approximately $104 million resulting from the retirement of debt as a result of scheduled maturities, the purchase of the 2019 Tendered Notes and our open market repurchases.

In the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized a net loss on retirement of debt as follows: (a) $18 million resulting from retirement of the validly tendered 2019 Tendered Notes and (b) $23 million resulting from open market repurchases of $434 million aggregate principal amount of our debt securities.

Other income, net, increased in the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to the following: (a) a gain of $132 million resulting from termination of construction contracts in the year ended December 31, 2019 and (b) an net increase of $41 million resulting from currency exchange rate changes, $18 million of which resulted from reduced losses recognized on undesignated currency derivative instruments. Partially offsetting these increases was (a) reduced income of $34 million from our dual-activity patent and (b) reduced income of $6 million from non-service components of net periodic benefit costs.

Income tax expense—In the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, our effective tax rate was (4.9) percent and (12.8) percent, respectively, based on loss before income tax expense. In the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the effect of the various discrete period tax items represented a net tax benefit of $150 million and a net tax expense of $143 million, respectively. In the year ended December 31, 2019, such discrete items included a U.S. tax law change, settlements and expirations of various uncertain tax positions and adjustments to our deferred taxes for operating structural changes made in the U.S. In the year ended December 31, 2018, such discrete items were primarily related to the U.S. transition tax on non-U.S. earnings. In the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, our effective tax rate, excluding discrete items, was (30.7) percent and (29.2) percent, respectively, based on loss before income tax expense. Our effective tax rate decreased in the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to the recognition of significant uncertain tax benefits, partially offset by increased tax expense related to the adoption of a new operating structure, which will reduce our exposure to the U.S. base erosion and anti-abuse tax and other cash taxes in the U.S. To a lesser extent, our effective tax rate decreased due to changes in the relative blend of income from operations in certain jurisdictions.

Due to factors related to our operating activities and organizational structure, our income tax expense does not change proportionally with our income before income taxes. Significant decreases in our income before income taxes typically lead to higher effective tax rates, while significant increases in income before income taxes can lead to lower effective tax rates, subject to the other factors impacting income tax expense noted above. With respect to the effective tax rate calculation for the year ended December 31, 2019, a significant portion of our income tax expense was generated in countries in which income taxes are imposed on gross revenues, with the most significant of these countries being Angola and India. Conversely, the countries in which we incurred the most significant income taxes during this period that were based on income before income tax include the U.S., Switzerland, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) and Norway. Our rig operating structures further complicate our tax calculations, especially in instances where we have more than one operating structure for the taxing jurisdiction and, thus, more than one method of calculating taxes depending on the operating structure utilized by the rig under the contract. For example, two rigs operating in the same country could generate significantly different provisions for income taxes if they are owned by two different subsidiaries that are subject to differing tax laws and regulations in the respective country of incorporation. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12—Income Taxes.

​

- 31 - 
Liquidity and Capital Resources

Sources and uses of cash

At December 31, 2019, we had $1.8 billion in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and $558 million in restricted cash and cash equivalents. In the year ended December 31, 2019, our primary sources of cash were as follows: (1) net cash proceeds from the issuance of debt, (2) net cash provided by operating activities and (3) proceeds from maturities of short-term investments. Our primary uses of cash were as follows: (a) repayments of debt, (b) capital expenditures and (c) investments in unconsolidated affiliates.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased primarily due to increased operating costs resulting from rig reactivations and increased cash interest payments.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash used in investing activities decreased primarily due to (a) net cash paid to acquire Songa and Ocean Rig in the year ended December 31, 2018 with no comparable activity in the current year, (b) reduced investments in unconsolidated affiliates, partially offset by (c) reduced proceeds from maturities of unrestricted and restricted investments, net of deposits, and (d) increased capital expenditures.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash used in financing activities increased primarily due to (a) reduced cash proceeds from the issuance of the 6.875% Senior Secured Notes and the 5.375% Senior Secured Notes in the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to net cash proceeds from the issuance of the 5.875% senior secured notes due January 2024 (the “5.875% Senior Secured Notes”), the 6.125% senior secured notes due August 2025 (the “6.125% Senior Secured Notes”) and the 7.25% senior notes due November 2025 (the “7.25% Senior Notes”) in the year ended December 31, 2018, partially offset by (b) decreased cash used to repay debt and (c) cash paid to terminate certain derivative instruments assumed in the Songa acquisition in the year ended December 31, 2018 with no comparable activity in the current year.

- 32 - 
Sources and uses of liquidity

Overview—We expect to use existing unrestricted cash balances, internally generated cash flows, borrowings under the Secured Credit Facility, proceeds from the disposal of assets or proceeds from the issuance of additional debt to fulfill anticipated obligations, which may include capital expenditures, working capital and other operational requirements, scheduled debt maturities or other payments. We may also consider establishing additional financing arrangements with banks or other capital providers. Subject to market conditions and other factors, we may also be required to provide collateral for future financing arrangements. In each case subject to then existing market conditions and to our then expected liquidity needs, among other factors, we may continue to use a portion of our internally generated cash flows and proceeds from asset sales to reduce debt prior to scheduled maturities through debt repurchases, either in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, or through debt redemptions or tender offers.

Our access to debt and equity markets may be limited due to a variety of events, including, among others, credit rating agency downgrades of our debt ratings, industry conditions, general economic conditions, market conditions and market perceptions of us and our industry. The rating of our non-credit enhanced senior unsecured long-term debt (“Debt Rating”) is below investment grade. Such Debt Rating has caused us to experience increased fees and interest rates under agreements governing certain of our senior notes. Further downgrades may affect or limit our ability to access debt markets in the future. Our ability to access such markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. An economic downturn could have an impact on the lenders participating in our credit facilities or on our customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us.

Our internally generated cash flows are directly related to our business and the market sectors in which we operate. We have generated positive cash flows from operating activities over recent years and, although we cannot provide assurances, we currently expect that such cash flows will continue to be positive over the next year. However, among other factors, if the drilling market deteriorates, or if we experience poor operating results, or if we incur expenses to, for example, reactivate, stack or otherwise assure the marketability of our fleet, cash flows from operations may be reduced or negative.

Secured Credit Facility—In June 2018, we entered into a bank credit agreement, which established our $1.0 billion Secured Credit Facility, and in the year ended December 31, 2019, we amended the terms of the agreement to, among other changes, increase the borrowing capacity to $1.3 billion and add to and clarify the lender parties and their respective commitments under the facility. The Secured Credit Facility is scheduled to expire on the earlier of (i) June 22, 2023 and (ii) if greater than $300 million aggregate principal amount of our 9.00% Senior Notes due July 2023 remain outstanding in April 2023, such date. The Secured Credit Facility is guaranteed by Transocean Ltd. and certain subsidiaries. The Secured Credit Facility is secured by, among other things, a lien on the ultra-deepwater floaters Deepwater Asgard, Deepwater Invictus, Deepwater Orion, Deepwater Skyros, Dhirubhai Deepwater KG2 and Discoverer Inspiration and the harsh environment floaters Transocean Barents and Transocean Spitsbergen. The Secured Credit Facility contains covenants that, among other things, include maintenance of certain guarantee and collateral coverage ratios, a maximum debt to capitalization ratio of 0.60 to 1.00 and minimum liquidity of $500 million. The Secured Credit Facility also restricts the ability of Transocean Ltd. and certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things, merge, consolidate or otherwise make changes to the corporate structure, incur liens, incur additional indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates and pay dividends and other distributions. In order to borrow under the Secured Credit Facility, we must, at the time of the borrowing request, not be in default under the Secured Credit Facility and make certain representations and warranties, including with respect to compliance with laws and solvency, to the lenders. Repayment of borrowings under the Secured Credit Facility are subject to acceleration upon the occurrence of an event of default. Under the agreements governing certain of our debt and finance lease, we are also subject to various covenants, including restrictions on creating liens, engaging in sale/leaseback transactions and engaging in certain merger, consolidation or reorganization transactions. A default under our public debt indentures, the agreements governing our senior secured notes, our finance lease contract or any other debt owed to unaffiliated entities that exceeds $125 million could trigger a default under the Secured Credit Facility and, if not waived by the lenders, could cause us to lose access to the Secured Credit Facility. At February 12, 2020, we had no borrowings outstanding, $9 million of letters of credit issued, and we had $1.3 billion of available borrowing capacity under the Secured Credit Facility.

Debt issuances—On January 17, 2020, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of our 8.00% Senior Notes, and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $743 million, net of issue costs. We may redeem all or a portion of the 8.00% Senior Notes on or prior to February 1, 2023 at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount plus a make-whole provision, and subsequently, at specified redemption prices.

In February 2019, we issued $550 million aggregate principal amount of 6.875% Senior Secured Notes, and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $539 million, net of discount and issue costs. The indenture that governs the 6.875% Senior Secured Notes contains covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of our subsidiaries that own or operate the collateral rig Deepwater Poseidon to declare or pay dividends to their affiliates. We may redeem all or a portion of the 6.875% Senior Secured Notes on or prior to February 1, 2022 at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount plus a make-whole provision, and subsequently, at specified redemption prices.

In May 2019, we issued $525 million aggregate principal amount of 5.375% Senior Secured Notes, and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $517 million, net of discount and issue costs. The indenture that governs the 5.375% Senior Secured Notes contains covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of our subsidiaries that own or operate the collateral rigs Transocean Endurance and Transocean Equinox to declare or pay dividends to their affiliates. We may redeem all or a portion of the 5.375% Senior Secured Notes on 

- 33 - 
or prior to May 15, 2021 at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount plus a make-whole provision, and subsequently, at specified redemption prices.

In July 2018, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of the 5.875% Senior Secured Notes and $600 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% Senior Secured Notes (together with the 5.875% Senior Secured Notes, the “2018 Senior Secured Notes”), and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $733 million and $586 million, respectively, net of discount and issue costs. The indentures that govern the 2018 Senior Secured Notes contain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of our subsidiaries that own or operate the collateral rigs Transocean Enabler, Transocean Encourage and Deepwater Pontus to declare or pay dividends to their affiliates. We may redeem all or a portion of the 2018 Senior Secured Notes on or prior to July 15, 2021 and August 1, 2021, respectively, at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount plus a make-whole provision and subsequently, at specified redemption prices.

In October 2018, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 7.25% Senior Notes, and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $735 million, net of issue costs. We may redeem all or a portion of the 7.25% Senior Notes on or prior to November 1, 2021 at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount plus a make-whole provision, and subsequently, at specified redemption prices.

We will be required to redeem our senior secured notes at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount without a make-whole provision, upon the occurrence of certain events related to the collateral rigs and the related drilling contracts.

Early debt retirement—On January 17, 2020, we provided a notice to redeem in full our outstanding 9.00% Senior Notes. On February 18, 2020, we made a payment of $767 million, including the make-whole provision, to redeem the 9.00% Senior Notes, and in the three months ending March 31, 2020, we expect to recognize a loss of approximately $66 million associated with the retirement of debt.

On February 5, 2019, we completed the 2019 Tender Offers to purchase for cash up to $700 million aggregate purchase price of the 2019 Tendered Notes, subject to the terms and conditions specified in the related offer to purchase. In the year ended December 31, 2019, as a result of the 2019 Tender Offers, we made an aggregate cash payment of $522 million to settle the validly tendered 2019 Tendered Notes. In the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we repurchased in the open market $434 million and $95 million aggregate principal amount of our debt securities, respectively, for an aggregate cash payment of $449 million and $95 million, respectively.

In connection with the Songa acquisition, we assumed rights and obligations under certain credit agreements and a subscription agreement establishing two term loan facilities and a bond facility. In the year ended December 31, 2018, we made an aggregate cash payment of $1.59 billion to repay the borrowings under the facilities and terminated the underlying credit agreements and subscription agreement. We also assumed the indebtedness related to two bond loans and we assumed the rights and obligations under a credit agreement for a secured borrowing facility. In the year ended December 31, 2018, we made an aggregate cash payment equivalent to $67 million to repay the two bond loans and the borrowings outstanding under the secured borrowing facility, and we terminated the underlying credit agreement.

Business combinations—On December 5, 2018, we acquired Ocean Rig in a merger transaction, and as a result, Ocean Rig became our wholly owned subsidiary. To complete the acquisition, we issued 147.7 million shares and made an aggregate cash payment of $1.2 billion.

On January 30, 2018, we acquired an approximate 97.7 percent ownership interest in Songa. On March 28, 2018, we acquired the remaining shares not owned by us through a compulsory acquisition under Cyprus law, and as a result, Songa became our wholly owned subsidiary. To complete these transactions, we issued 68.0 million shares as partial consideration for the acquisition of Songa shares. Additionally, we issued $863 million aggregate principal amount of 0.50% exchangeable senior bonds due January 30, 2023 (the “Exchangeable Bonds”) as partial consideration for the acquisition of Songa shares and partial settlement of certain Songa indebtedness. Holders of the Exchangeable Bonds may convert the notes into shares of Transocean Ltd. at any time prior to maturity at a rate of 97.29756 shares per $1,000 note, equivalent to a conversion price of $10.28 per share, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events. Holders of Exchangeable Bonds may require us to repurchase all or a portion of such holder’s Exchangeable Bonds upon the occurrence of certain events.

Investments in unconsolidated affiliates—We hold a 33.0 percent ownership interest in Orion, the company that owns the harsh environment floater Transocean Norge. In the years ended December 2019 and 2018, we made an aggregate cash contribution of $74 million and $91 million, respectively, to Orion. Additionally, in the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we made an aggregate cash contribution of $3 million and $16 million, respectively, in certain companies that are involved in researching and developing technology to improve efficiency and reliability and to increase automation, sustainability and safety in drilling and other activities.

Derivative instruments—In connection with the Songa acquisition, we acquired certain currency swaps that were denominated in Norwegian kroner. In February 2018, we made an aggregate cash payment of $92 million in connection with the settlement and termination of the currency swaps.

Litigation settlements—On May 29, 2015, together with the Plaintiff Steering Committee, we filed a settlement agreement (the “PSC Settlement Agreement”) in which we agreed to pay to two classes of plaintiffs a total of $212 million in exchange for a release from all claims against us for damages related to the Macondo well incident. On February 15, 2017, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana (the “MDL Court”) entered a final order and judgment approving the PSC Settlement Agreement, which is no longer subject to 

- 34 - 
appeal, and we subsequently made the required cash deposits into escrow accounts established for settlement. In the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the MDL Court released $33 million and $58 million, respectively, from the escrow account to make payments to plaintiffs. At December 31, 2019, the aggregate balance of our escrow account was $125 million.

Share repurchase program—In May 2009, at our annual general meeting, our shareholders approved and authorized our board of directors, at its discretion, to repurchase an amount of our shares for cancellation with an aggregate purchase price of up to CHF 3.5 billion. On February 12, 2010, our board of directors authorized our management to implement the share repurchase program. At February 12, 2020, the authorization remaining under the share repurchase program was for the repurchase of up to CHF 3.2 billion, equivalent to approximately $3.3 billion, of our outstanding shares. We intend to fund any repurchases using available cash balances and cash from operating activities. The share repurchase program could be suspended or discontinued by our board of directors or company management, as applicable, at any time. We may decide, based on our ongoing capital requirements, the price of our shares, regulatory and tax considerations, cash flow generation, the amount and duration of our contract backlog, general market conditions, debt rating considerations and other factors, that we should retain cash, reduce debt, make capital investments or acquisitions or otherwise use cash for general corporate purposes. Decisions regarding the amount, if any, and timing of any share repurchases will be made from time to time based on these factors. Any repurchased shares under the share repurchase program would be held by us for cancellation by the shareholders at a future general meeting of shareholders. See “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Shareholder Matters.”

Contractual obligations—At December 31, 2019, our contractual obligations stated at face value, were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)As of December 31, 2019, our defined benefit pension and other postemployment plans represented an aggregate liability of $351 million, representing the aggregate projected benefit obligation, net of the aggregate fair value of plan assets. The carrying amount of this liability is affected by net periodic benefit costs, funding contributions, participant demographics, plan amendments, significant current and future assumptions, and returns on plan assets. Due to the uncertainties resulting from these factors and since the carrying amount is not representative of future liquidity requirements, we have excluded this amount from the contractual obligations presented in the table above. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 14—Postemployment Benefit Plans.

As of December 31, 2019, our unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions represented a liability of $175 million. Although a portion of these might settle or reverse in the coming year, there is a high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows associated with the liabilities recognized in this balance, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities, and we excluded this amount from the contractual obligations presented in the table above. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12—Income Taxes.

Other commercial commitments—We have other commercial commitments that we are contractually obligated to fulfill with cash under certain circumstances. These commercial commitments include standby letters of credit and surety bonds that guarantee our performance as it relates to our drilling contracts, insurance, customs, tax and other obligations in various jurisdictions. Standby letters of credit are issued under various committed and uncommitted credit lines, some of which require cash collateral. At December 31, 2019, the aggregate cash collateral held by banks for letters of credit and surety bonds was $10 million. The obligations that are the subject of these standby letters of credit and surety bonds are primarily geographically concentrated in Brazil, India and Spain. Obligations under these standby letters of credit and surety bonds are not normally called, as we typically comply with the underlying performance requirement.

At December 31, 2019, these obligations stated in U.S. dollar equivalents and their time to expiration were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We have established a wholly owned captive insurance company to insure various risks of our operating subsidiaries. Access to the cash and cash equivalents of the captive insurance company may be limited due to local regulatory restrictions. At December 31, 2019, the captive insurance company held cash and cash equivalents of $116 million, and such balance is expected to range from $50 million to $136 million through December 31, 2020. The balance of actual cash and cash equivalents held by the captive insurance company varies, 

- 35 - 
depending on the premiums paid to the captive insurance company and the timing and number of claims or dividends paid by the captive insurance company.

Drilling fleet

Expansion—From time to time, we review possible acquisitions of businesses and drilling rigs and may make significant future capital commitments for such purposes. We may also consider investments related to major rig upgrades, new rig construction, or the acquisition of a rig under construction. We may commit to such investment without first obtaining customer contracts. Any acquisition, upgrade or new rig construction could involve the payment by us of a substantial amount of cash or the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares or other securities. Our failure to secure drilling contracts for rigs under construction could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows.

In the year ended December 31, 2018, we completed the Songa and Ocean Rig acquisitions to strengthen our position as a leader in the ultra-deepwater and harsh environment drilling services by adding high-value assets. In the year ended December 31, 2018, we also invested in a 33.0 percent ownership interest in Orion, the company that owns the harsh environment floater Transocean Norge. The Moss Maritime CS60 design is considered among the most capable semisubmersibles in the world. In August 2019, Orion completed construction of the rig and placed it into service. One of our subsidiaries operates the rig under a short-term bareboat charter to complete a multiple-well drilling contract for one of our customers. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4—Business Combinations and Note 5—Unconsolidated Affiliates.

In the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we made capital expenditures of $387 million and $184 million, respectively, including $129 million and $75 million, respectively, for our major construction projects. The historical and projected capital expenditures, capitalized interest and other cash or non-cash capital additions for our ongoing major construction projects were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Deepwater Atlas, an ultra-deepwater drillship under construction at the Jurong Shipyard Pte Ltd. in Singapore does not yet have a drilling contract and is contracted to be delivered in the fourth quarter of 2020. Following delivery of the ultra-deepwater drillship, we have included estimated costs of $40 million to mobilize the rig to a location where it may be placed in service.

(b)Deepwater Titan, an ultra-deepwater drillship under construction at the Jurong Shipyard Pte Ltd. in Singapore, is expected to commence operations in the fourth quarter of 2021. The projected capital additions include estimates for an upgrade for two 20,000 pounds per square inch blowout preventers and other equipment required by our customer.

The ultimate amount of our capital expenditures is partly dependent upon financial market conditions, the actual level of operational and contracting activity, the costs associated with the current regulatory environment and customer requested capital improvements and equipment for which the customer agrees to reimburse us. As with any major shipyard project that takes place over an extended period of time, the actual costs, the timing of expenditures and the project completion date may vary from estimates based on numerous factors, including actual contract terms, weather, exchange rates, shipyard labor conditions, availability of suppliers to recertify equipment and the market demand for components and resources required for drilling unit construction. We intend to fund the cash requirements relating to our capital expenditures through available cash balances, cash generated from operations and asset sales and financing arrangements with banks or other capital providers. We also have available credit under our Secured Credit Facility (see “—Sources and uses of liquidity”). Economic conditions could impact the availability of these sources of funding.

Dispositions—From time to time, we may review the possible disposition of non-strategic drilling units. Considering recent market conditions, we have committed to plans to sell certain lower-specification drilling units for scrap value. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we identified six and eight such drilling units, respectively, that we have sold for scrap value. We continue to evaluate the drilling units in our fleet and may identify additional lower-specification drilling units to be sold for scrap value.

During the year ended December 31, 2019, we completed the sale of six ultra-deepwater floaters, one harsh environment floater, two deepwater floaters and two midwater floaters, along with related assets, and we received net cash proceeds of $64 million. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we completed the sale of six ultra-deepwater floaters, one deepwater floater and one midwater floater, along with related assets, and we received net cash proceeds of $36 million.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We had no off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2019.

- 36 - 
Related Party Transactions

We engage in certain related party transactions with Orion under a management services agreement for the operation and maintenance of the harsh environment floater Transocean Norge and a shipyard care agreement for the construction of the rig. In the year ended December 31, 2019, we received an aggregate cash payment of $96 million, primarily related to the commissioning, preparation and mobilization of Transocean Norge under the shipyard care agreement. We also lease the rig under a short-term bareboat charter agreement, which is now expected to expire in late 2020. In the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized rent expense of $8 million, recorded in operating and maintenance costs, and made an aggregate cash payment of $6 million under the bareboat charter agreement. In the year ended December 31, 2019, with other unconsolidated affiliates, we made an aggregate cash payment of $7 million for capital expenditures, primarily for equipment to improve reliability and reduce emissions, and $4 million for research and development, recorded in general and administrative costs. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5—Unconsolidated Affiliates.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Overview—We consider the following to be our critical accounting policies and estimates since they are very important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require our most subjective and complex judgments. We have discussed the development, selection and disclosure of such policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. For a discussion of our significant accounting policies, refer to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2—Significant Accounting Policies.

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require us to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates require significant judgments and assumptions. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to our income taxes, property and equipment, assets held for sale, goodwill, contingencies, postemployment benefit plans, allowance for excess and obsolete materials and supplies, share-based compensation and allowance for doubtful accounts. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

Income taxes—We are a Swiss corporation, operating through our various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. Our annual tax provision is based on expected taxable income, statutory rates, tax laws and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. The relationship between the provision for or benefit from income taxes and our income or loss before income taxes can vary significantly from period to period because the countries in which we operate have taxation regimes that vary with respect to the nominal tax rate and the availability of deductions, credits and other benefits. Consequently, our income tax expense does not change proportionally with our income before income taxes. Variations also arise when income earned and taxed in a particular country or countries fluctuates from year to year.

The determination of our annual tax provision and evaluation of our tax positions involves interpretation of tax laws in the various jurisdictions and requires significant judgment and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events, such as the amount, timing and character of income, deductions and tax credits. Our tax liability in any given year could be affected by changes in tax laws, regulations, agreements, and treaties, currency exchange restrictions or our level of operations or profitability in each jurisdiction. Additionally, we operate in many jurisdictions where the tax laws relating to the offshore drilling industry are not well developed. Although our annual tax provision is based on the best information available at the time, a number of years may elapse before the tax liabilities in the various jurisdictions are ultimately determined.

We establish liabilities for estimated tax exposures in our jurisdictions of operation, and the provisions and benefits resulting from changes to those liabilities are included in our annual tax provision along with related interest. Such tax exposures include potential challenges to permanent establishment positions, intercompany pricing, disposition transactions, and withholding tax rates and their applicability. These exposures may be affected by changes in applicable tax law or other factors, which could cause us to revise our prior estimates, and are generally resolved through the settlement of audits within these tax jurisdictions or by judicial means. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, our unrecognized tax benefits were approximately $369 million and $514 million, respectively.

We are undergoing examinations in a number of taxing jurisdictions for various fiscal years. We review our liabilities on an ongoing basis and, to the extent audits or other events cause us to adjust the liabilities accrued in prior periods, we recognize those adjustments in the period of the event. We do not believe it is possible to reasonably estimate the future impact of changes to the assumptions and estimates related to our annual tax provision because changes to our tax liabilities are dependent on numerous factors that cannot be reasonably projected. These factors include, among others, the amount and nature of additional taxes potentially asserted by local tax authorities; the willingness of local tax authorities to negotiate a fair settlement through an administrative process; the impartiality of the local courts; and the potential for changes in the taxes paid to one country that either produce, or fail to produce, offsetting tax changes in other countries.

We do not provide for taxes on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries when we consider such earnings to be indefinitely reinvested. We recognize deferred taxes related to the earnings of certain subsidiaries that we do not consider to be indefinitely reinvested or that will not be indefinitely reinvested in the future. If we were to distribute from the unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries, we could be subject to taxes payable to various jurisdictions. If facts and circumstances cause us to change our expectations regarding future tax consequences, 

- 37 - 
the resulting adjustments to our deferred tax balances could have a material effect on our consolidated statement of financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Estimates, judgments and assumptions are required in determining whether deferred tax assets will be fully or partially realized. In evaluating our ability to realize deferred tax assets, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including projected future taxable income and the existence of cumulative losses in recent years. We continually evaluate strategies that could allow for the future utilization of our deferred tax assets. When it is estimated to be more likely than not that all or some portion of certain deferred tax assets, such as foreign tax credit carryovers or net operating loss carryforwards, will not be realized, we establish a valuation allowance for the amount of the deferred tax assets that is considered to be unrealizable. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, in evaluating the projected realizability of our deferred tax assets, we considered our consolidated cumulative loss incurred over the recent three-year period, which has limited our ability to consider other subjective evidence, such as projected contract activity rather than contract backlog. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12—Income Taxes.

Property and equipment—The recognition of our property and equipment, consisting primarily of offshore drilling rigs and related equipment, requires us to apply judgment related to estimates and assumptions for cost capitalization, useful lives and salvage values of our rigs. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the carrying amount of our property and equipment was $18.8 billion and $20.4 billion, respectively, representing 78 percent and 80 percent, respectively, of our total assets.

Capitalized costs—We capitalize costs incurred to enhance, improve and extend the useful lives of our property and equipment and expense costs incurred to repair and maintain the existing condition of our rigs. For newbuild construction projects, we also capitalize the initial preparation, mobilization and commissioning costs incurred until the drilling unit is placed into service. Capitalized costs increase the carrying amounts of, and depreciation expense for, the related assets, which also impact our results of operations.

Useful lives and salvage values—We depreciate our assets using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives after allowing for salvage values. We estimate useful lives and salvage values by applying judgments and assumptions that reflect both historical experience and expectations regarding future operations, rig utilization and asset performance. Useful lives and salvage values of rigs are difficult to estimate due to a variety of factors, including (a) technological advances that impact the methods or cost of oil and gas exploration and development, (b) changes in market or economic conditions, and (c) changes in laws or regulations affecting the drilling industry. Applying different judgments and assumptions in establishing the useful lives and salvage values would likely result in materially different net carrying amounts and depreciation expense for our assets. We reevaluate the remaining useful lives and salvage values of our rigs when certain events occur that directly impact the useful lives and salvage values of the rigs, including changes in operating condition, functional capability and market and economic factors. When evaluating the remaining useful lives of rigs, we also consider major capital upgrades required to perform certain contracts and the long-term impact of those upgrades on future marketability. At December 31, 2019, a hypothetical one-year increase in the useful lives of all of our rigs would cause a decrease in our annual depreciation expense of approximately $49 million and a hypothetical one-year decrease would cause an increase in our annual depreciation expense of approximately $40 million.

Long-lived asset impairment—We review our property and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of our assets held and used may not be recoverable or when carrying amounts of assets held for sale exceed fair value less cost to sell. Potential impairment indicators include rapid declines in commodity prices and related market conditions, declines in dayrates or utilization, cancellations of contracts or credit concerns of multiple customers. During periods of oversupply, we may idle or stack rigs for extended periods of time or we may elect to sell certain rigs for scrap, which could be an indication that an asset group may be impaired since supply and demand are the key drivers of rig utilization and our ability to contract our rigs at economical rates. Our rigs are mobile units, equipped to operate in geographic regions throughout the world and, consequently, we may mobilize rigs from an oversupplied region to a more lucrative and undersupplied region when it is economical to do so. Many of our contracts generally allow our customers to relocate our rigs from one geographic region to another, subject to certain conditions, and our customers utilize this capability to meet their worldwide drilling requirements. Accordingly, our rigs are considered to be interchangeable within classes or asset groups, and we evaluate impairment by asset group. We consider our asset groups to be ultra-deepwater floaters, harsh environment floaters and midwater floaters.

We assess recoverability of assets held and used by projecting undiscounted cash flows for the asset group being evaluated. When the carrying amount of the asset group is determined to be unrecoverable, we recognize an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its estimated fair value. To estimate the fair value of each asset group, we apply a variety of valuation methods, incorporating income, market and cost approaches. We may weigh the approaches, under certain circumstances, when relevant data is limited, when results are inconclusive or when results deviate significantly. Our estimate of fair value generally requires us to use significant unobservable inputs, representative of a Level 3 fair value measurement, including assumptions related to the long-term future performance of our asset groups, such as projected revenues and costs, dayrates, rig utilization and revenue efficiency. These projections involve uncertainties that rely on assumptions about demand for our services, future market conditions and technological developments. Because our business is cyclical in nature, the results of our impairment testing are expected to vary significantly depending on the timing of the assessment relative to the business cycle. Altering either the timing of or the assumptions used to estimate fair value and significant unanticipated changes to the assumptions could materially alter an outcome that could otherwise result in an impairment loss. Given the nature of these evaluations and their application to specific asset groups and specific time periods, it is not possible to reasonably quantify the impact of changes in these assumptions.

- 38 - 
In the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recognized a loss of $578 million, $999 million and $1.4 billion, respectively, associated with the impairment of assets that we determined were impaired at the time we classified such assets as held for sale. In the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized a loss of $94 million ($93 million, net of tax) associated with the impairment of the midwater floater asset group. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 7—Drilling Fleet.

Contingencies—We perform assessments of our contingencies on an ongoing basis to evaluate the appropriateness of our liabilities and disclosures for such contingencies. We establish liabilities for estimated loss contingencies when we believe a loss is probable and the amount of the probable loss can be reasonably estimated. We recognize corresponding assets for loss contingencies that we believe are probable of being recovered through insurance. Once established, we adjust the carrying amount of a contingent liability upon the occurrence of a recognizable event when facts and circumstances change, altering our previous assumptions with respect to the likelihood or amount of loss. We recognize liabilities for legal costs as they are incurred, and we recognize a corresponding asset for those legal costs only if we expect such legal costs to be recovered through insurance. Our estimates involve a significant amount of judgement. Actual results may differ from our estimates.

We have recognized a liability for estimated loss contingencies associated with litigation and investigations resulting from the Macondo well incident that we believe are probable and for which a reasonable estimate can be made. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the remaining liability for estimated loss contingencies that we believe are probable and for which a reasonable estimate can be made was $124 million and $158 million, respectively, recorded in other current liabilities, the majority of which is related to our settlement with the PSC. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 15—Commitments and Contingencies.

Accounting Standards Updates

For a discussion of the new accounting standards updates that have had or are expected to have an effect on our consolidated financial statements, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3—Accounting Standards Updates.

Other Matters

Regulatory matters

We occasionally receive inquiries from governmental regulatory agencies regarding our operations around the world, including inquiries with respect to various tax, environmental, regulatory and compliance matters. To the extent appropriate under the circumstances, we investigate such matters, respond to such inquiries and cooperate with the regulatory agencies. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 15—Commitments and Contingencies.

Tax matters

We conduct operations through our various subsidiaries in countries throughout the world. Each country has its own tax regimes with varying nominal rates, deductions and tax attributes. From time to time, we may identify changes to previously evaluated tax positions that could result in adjustments to our recorded assets and liabilities. Although we are unable to predict the outcome of these changes, we do not expect the effect, if any, resulting from these adjustments to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We file federal and local tax returns in several jurisdictions throughout the world. Tax authorities in certain jurisdictions are examining our tax returns and in some cases have issued assessments. We are defending our tax positions in those jurisdictions. While we cannot predict or provide assurance as to the final outcome of these proceedings, we do not expect the ultimate liability to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations, although it may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated cash flows. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12—Income Taxes.

​

- 39 - 
Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk