ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND GAAP AND NON-GAAP MEASURES

The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations, financial condition and liquidity is based upon the consolidated financial statements of Signet which are prepared in accordance with US GAAP. The following information should be read in conjunction with Signet’s financial statements and the related notes included in Item 8. The discussion in this Item 7 contains forward-looking statements that reflect the Company's plans, estimates and beliefs. The Company's actual results could materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.”

A number of non-GAAP measures are used by management to analyze and manage the performance of the business. See Item 6 for the required disclosures related to these measures. Signet provides such non-GAAP information in reporting its financial results to give investors additional data to evaluate its operations. The Company’s management does not, nor does it suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP measures as more important than, in isolation from, or in substitution for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.

Impacts of COVID-19 to Signet’s business

Following the end of Fiscal 2020, the global emergence of COVID-19 has had significant impacts on the Company’s business and the full extent of such impacts are currently unknown. COVID-19 has already begun to significantly impact consumer traffic and the Company’s retail sales, based on the perceived public health risk and government-imposed quarantines and restrictions of public gatherings and commercial activity to contain spread of the virus. As of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, based on recent governmental orders and the advice of leading health officials, the Company has taken certain precautionary and preemptive measures to address COVID-19. Effective March 23, 2020, the Company has temporarily closed all of its stores in North America, its diamond operations in New York and its support centers in the United States, and effective March 24, 2020, has temporarily closed all of its stores in the UK. The COVID-19 pandemic has also begun to disrupt the Company’s global supply chain, and may cause additional disruptions to operations if employees of the Company become sick, are quarantined or are otherwise limited in their ability to work at Company locations or travel. While the Company’s eCommerce business has not yet been significantly impacted, additional federal or state mandates ordering the shut-down of additional non-essential businesses could impact the Company’s ability to take or fulfill customer orders placed online.

The Company continues to actively monitor and manage the situation, and may take additional actions that may further alter normal business operations as may be required by federal, state or local authorities or that the Company determines are in the best interests of its employees, customers, suppliers and shareholders. The Company is also taking numerous actions to maximize its financial flexibility and bolster its cash position as a result of the uncertainty. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources section below. It is not clear to what extent any of these impacts will have on the Company’s business, including the effects on its progress on the Path to Brilliance transformation plan, its customers and business prospects, or on its financial results in the near and long-term.

Market and operating conditions

The Company faces a highly competitive and dynamic retail landscape throughout the geographies where it does business, as well as a challenging macro-economic and political environment in the UK market. In Fiscal 2020, the Company continued to build on its progress toward achieving the goals of the Path to Brilliance transformation plan, and the Company’s performance reflected this progress. In Fiscal 2020, the Company’s performance exceeded its expectations, both for the full year and in the critical Holiday Season during the fourth quarter. Refer to Item 1 for further information on the Company’s mission and strategy, including the Path to Brilliance.

Exchange translation impact

The monthly average exchange rates are used to prepare the consolidated statements of operations. In Fiscal 2021, it is anticipated a five percent movement in the British pound to US dollar exchange rate would impact income before income taxes by approximately $0.5 million, while a five percent movement in the Canadian dollar to US dollar exchange rate would impact income before income taxes by approximately $0.4 million.

Fiscal 2020 Overview 

Similar to many other retailers, Signet follows the retail 4-4-5 reporting calendar, which included an extra week in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 (the “53rd week”). The 53rd week added $84.3 million in net sales and increased diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.12 for both the fourth quarter and full year Fiscal 2018. Both Fiscal 2020 and Fiscal 2019 were 52 week reporting periods. 

Same Store Sales

Same store sales growth is calculated by comparison of sales in stores that were open in both the current and the prior fiscal year. Sales from stores that have been open for less than 12 months are excluded from the comparison until their 12-month anniversary. Sales after the 12-month anniversary are compared against the equivalent prior period sales within the comparable store sales comparison. Stores 

38
closed in the current financial period are included up to the date of closure and the comparative period is correspondingly adjusted. Stores that have been relocated or expanded, but remain within the same local geographic area, are included within the comparison with no adjustment to either the current or comparative period. Stores that have been refurbished are also included within the comparison except for the period when the refurbishment was taking place, when those stores are excluded from the comparison both for the current year and for the comparative period. Comparisons at the divisional level are made in local currency and consolidated comparisons are made at constant exchange rates and exclude the effect of exchange rate movements by recalculating the prior period results as if they had been generated at the weighted average exchange rate for the current period. eCommerce sales are included in the calculation of same store sales for the period and the comparative figures from the anniversary of the launch of the relevant website. Same store sales exclude the 53rd week in the fiscal year in which it occurs. Management considers same store sales useful as it is a major benchmark used by investors to judge performance within the retail industry.

Net Store Selling Space

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes 18 store repositions during Fiscal 2020.

Cost of sales and Gross margin

Cost of sales is mostly composed of merchandise costs (net of discounts and allowances). Cost of sales also contains:

•Occupancy costs such as rent, common area maintenance, depreciation and real estate tax.

•Net bad debt expense and customers’ late payments prior to Signet outsourcing credit.(1) 

•Store operating expenses such as utilities, displays and merchant credit costs.

•Distribution and warehousing costs including freight, processing, inventory shrinkage and related payroll.

(1)  Signet recognized two months of net bad debt expense, customer late payments and finance interest income (presented within other operating income) in the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 prior to the non-prime receivables being reclassified as receivables held for sale.

As the classification of cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses varies from retailer to retailer, Signet’s gross margin percentage may not be directly comparable to other retailers.

Factors that influence gross margin include pricing, promotional environment, changes in merchandise costs, changes in non-merchandise components of cost of sales (as described above), changes in sales mix, foreign exchange, gold and currency hedges and the economics of services such as repairs and extended service plans. The price of diamonds varies depending on their size, cut, color and clarity. Signet uses gold and currency hedges to reduce its exposure to market volatility in the cost of gold and the British pound to the US dollar exchange rate, but it is not able to do so for diamonds. For gold and currencies, the hedging period can extend to 24 months, although the majority of hedge contracts will normally be for a maximum of 12 months.

Signet uses an average cost inventory methodology and, as jewelry inventory turns slowly, the impact of movements in the cost of diamonds and gold takes time to be fully reflected in the gross margin. Signet’s inventory turns faster in the fourth quarter than in the other three quarters, therefore, changes in the cost of merchandise is more impactful on the gross margin in that quarter. Furthermore, Signet’s hedging activities result in movements in the purchase cost of merchandise taking some time before being reflected in the gross margin. An increase in inventory turn would accelerate the rate at which commodity costs impact gross margin.

39
Selling, general and administrative expense (“SGA”)

SGA expense primarily includes store staff and store administrative costs as well as advertising and promotional costs. It also includes field support center expenses such as information technology, in-house credit operations prior to the Company’s outsourcing initiatives in the third quarter of Fiscal 2018 and third-party outsourcing fees and credit sales subsequent to the outsourcing initiative, finance, eCommerce and other operating expenses not specifically categorized elsewhere in the consolidated statements of operations.

The primary drivers of staffing costs are the number of full time equivalent employees and the level of compensation, taxes and other benefits paid. Management varies, on a store by store basis, the hours worked based on the expected level of selling activity, subject to minimum staffing levels required to operate the store. Non-store staffing levels are less variable. A significant element of compensation is performance based and is primarily dependent on sales and operating profit.

The level of advertising expenditure can vary. The largest element of advertising expenditure has historically been national television advertising and is determined by management’s judgment of the appropriate level of advertising impressions and the cost of purchasing media.

Other operating income (loss)

Other operating income (loss) is primarily comprised of miscellaneous operating income and expense items such as litigation settlements and foreign currency gains and losses. Prior to the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, other operating income was predominantly comprised of interest income arising from in-house customer finance provided to the customers of the North America segment. In the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, the Company completed the sale of the prime portion of the in-house finance receivables. In the second quarter of Fiscal 2019, the Company completed the sale of the non-prime in-house accounts receivable. Subsequent to these transactions, the Company experienced a material reduction in the amount of interest income it recognized. See Note 4 in Item 8 for further detail on the Company’s credit transactions.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

COMPARISON OF FISCAL 2020 TO FISCAL 2019 

•Same store sales: up 0.6%.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

In Fiscal 2020, Signet’s same store sales increased by 0.6%, compared to a decrease of 0.1% in Fiscal 2019. Total sales were $6.14 billion, down $110.0 million or 1.8%, compared to $6.25 billion in Fiscal 2019. The total sales decline was primarily driven by net store closures of $181.4 million. The decrease was positively offset by growth in eCommerce sales, which were $750.4 million and 12.2% of sales compared to $682.4 million and 10.9% of sales in Fiscal 2019. 

40
The breakdown of Signet’s sales performance during Fiscal 2020 is set out in the table below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes sales from Signet’s diamond sourcing initiative. 

na Not applicable.

Average merchandise transaction value (“ATV”) is defined as net merchandise sales on a same store basis divided by the total number of customer transactions. As such, changes from the prior year do not recompute within the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  Net merchandise sales within the North America segment include all merchandise product sales, net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are sales tax in the US, repair, extended service plan, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(2) Net merchandise sales within the International segment include all merchandise product sales, including value added tax (“VAT”), net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are repairs, warranty, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(3) Amounts for Peoples stores are denominated in Canadian dollars.

(4) Amounts for the International segment are denominated in British pounds.

North America sales

The North America segment’s total sales were $5.57 billion compared to $5.64 billion in the prior year, down 1.3%. Same store sales increased 1.1% compared to an increase of 0.5% in the prior year. North America’s ATV increased 0.5%, and the number of transactions increased 1.1%. eCommerce sales increased 10.7% and brick and mortar sales declined 0.2% on a same store sales basis.

The percentage of sales from new merchandise increased during the year, including Center of Me and Love + Be LovedTM, somewhat offset by declines in legacy product. Bridal and fashion sales each increased on a same store sales basis while the Watches and Other categories declined on a same store sales basis.

41
International sales

In Fiscal 2020, the International segment’s total sales were $518.0 million, down 10.1%, compared to $576.5 million in Fiscal 2019. Sales declined across categories continuing to reflect a difficult operating environment in the UK. Same store sales decreased by 4.9% compared to a decrease of 5.2% in Fiscal 2019. ATV was flat while the number of transactions decreased 5.1%. eCommerce sales increased 2.7% and brick and mortar sales declined 5.9% on a same store sales basis.

Fourth quarter sales

In the fourth quarter, Signet’s total sales were $2.15 billion, down $1.4 million or 0.1%, compared to a decrease of 6.0% in the prior year fourth quarter. Same store sales were up 2.3% compared to a decrease of 2.0% in the prior year fourth quarter. The total sales decrease was driven by net store closures compared to prior year. The decrease was offset by eCommerce sales which were $299.9 million or 13.9% of total sales, compared to $260.6 million or 12.1% of total sales in the prior year fourth quarter. The breakdown of the sales performance is set out in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes sales from Signet’s diamond sourcing initiative. 

naNot applicable.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  Net merchandise sales within the North America segment include all merchandise product sales, net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are sales tax in the US, repair, extended service plan, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(2) Net merchandise sales within the International segment include all merchandise product sales, including value added tax (“VAT”), net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are repairs, warranty, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(3) Amounts for Peoples stores are denominated in Canadian dollars.

(4) Amounts for the International segment are denominated in British pounds.

42
North America sales

The North America segment’s total sales were $1.95 billion compared to $1.94 billion in the prior year, up 0.6%. Same store sales grew in all mall based banners, resulting in an increase of 2.9% compared to a decrease of 1.4% in the prior year. The North America segment’s ATV decreased 0.5%, while the number of transactions increased 3.4% driven by higher conversion in-store. eCommerce sales increased 15.0% and brick and mortar sales increased 1.1% on a same store sales basis.

Bridal and fashion category sales grew on a same store sales basis reflecting strengthened product newness including new collections Center of Me and Marilyn Monroe. The Watches and Other categories declined on a same store sales basis.

International sales

The International segment’s total sales decreased 4.5% to $186.2 million compared to $195.0 million in the prior year and decreased 6.3% at constant exchange rates. Same store sales decreased 3.1% compared to a decrease of 7.3% in the prior year. Sales declined across all categories, continuing to reflect a difficult operating environment in the UK. In the International segment’s ATV increased 1.6%, while the number of transactions decreased 4.6%. eCommerce sales increased 15.8% and brick and mortar sales declined 5.8% on a same store sales basis.

Cost of sales and Gross margin 

In Fiscal 2020, gross margin was $2.22 billion or 36.2% of sales compared to $2.16 billion or 34.6% of sales in Fiscal 2019. Factors impacting gross margin rate for the year to date period included: 1) transformation plan cost savings; 2) a favorable impact of 80 bps related to credit outsourcing; and 3) an unfavorable impact of 30 bps related to lower margin diamond sales to third parties from our Botswana operations. In addition, gross margin in the current year was favorably impacted by a reduction in inventory charges related to the transformation plan compared to the prior year. The current year included $9.2 million in charges related to discontinued inventory under the plan, compared to charges of $62.2 million related to this inventory in the prior year comparable period.

In the fourth quarter, gross margin was $897.9 million or 41.7% of sales compared to $877.8 million or 40.7% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. The gross margin rate reflected: 1) transformation cost savings, 2) the benefit of lapping an inventory write-down in the prior year fourth quarter, and 3) lower store occupancy costs inclusive of closed stores. In the current year quarter, a charge of $3.4 million was taken related to inventory that the Company previously discontinued as part of its transformation plan.

See Note 7 of Item 8 for additional information regarding the Company’s restructuring activities.

Selling, general and administrative expenses (“SGA”)

Selling, general and administrative expenses for Fiscal 2020 were $1.92 billion or 31.3% of sales compared to $1.99 billion or 31.8% of sales in Fiscal 2019. SGA decreased year over year primarily due to lower store staff costs, inclusive of closed stores, and transformation cost savings. Additionally, there was a benefit of lapping a charge related to a previously disclosed regulatory matter in the prior year. These benefits were offset by slightly higher advertising expense and increased credit costs related to the transition to an outsourced credit model.

In the fourth quarter, SGA expense was $633.2 million or 29.4% of sales compared to $647.2 million or 30.0% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. Changes in SGA were driven by: 1) lower advertising spend with increased impressions, 2) lower store staff costs inclusive of closed stores, 3) the benefit of lapping a charge related to a regulatory matter in the prior year, and 4) higher incentive compensation.

Restructuring charges

During the first quarter of Fiscal 2019, Signet launched a three-year comprehensive transformation plan, the “Signet Path to Brilliance” plan (the “Plan”), to reposition the Company to be the OmniChannel jewelry category leader. During Fiscal 2020, restructuring charges of $69.9 million were recognized, $16.7 million of which were non-cash charges, primarily related to store closures, severance costs, and professional fees for legal and consulting services related to the Plan.

In the fourth quarter, restructuring charges of $10.5 million, of which $4.6 million were non-cash charges, were recognized primarily related to store closure costs and professional fees for legal and consulting services related to the Plan.

See Note 7 of Item 8 for additional information regarding the Company’s restructuring activities.

Goodwill and intangible impairments

During the 13 weeks ended August 3, 2019, an immaterial out-of-period adjustment of $47.7 million was recognized within goodwill and intangible impairments on the consolidated statements of operations.

In Fiscal 2019, the Company recorded non-cash goodwill and intangible asset impairment pre-tax charges of $735.4 million, of which $448.7 million were recorded in the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 and $286.7 million were recorded in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019. The first quarter charge was related to the write down of goodwill and intangible assets recognized in the North America segment as part of the Zale Corporation acquisition, as well as goodwill associated with the acquisition of Ultra Stores, Inc. The fourth quarter charge 

43
was related to the write down of goodwill and intangible assets recognized in the North America segment as part of the R2Net acquisition (James Allen) and intangible assets recognized as part of the Zale Corporation acquisition.

See Note 18 of Item 8 for additional information on the impairments.

Other operating income (loss)

In Fiscal 2020, other operating income (loss) was $(29.6) million compared to $26.2 million in Fiscal 2019. In the fourth quarter, other operating income (loss) was $(31.0) million compared to $0.7 million in the prior year fourth quarter. The loss in both fourth quarter and full year Fiscal 2020 was primarily driven by a $33.2 million charge, net of expected insurance recoveries, related to the proposed settlement of a shareholder litigation matter.

Refer to Note 27 of Item 8 for additional information on this litigation matter.

Operating income (loss)

In Fiscal 2020, operating income was $158.3 million or 2.6% of sales compared to an operating loss of $(764.6) million or (12.2)% of sales in Fiscal 2019. The operating income increase year over year was driven by: 1) the benefit of lapping prior year charges of $735.2 million related to goodwill offset by an out-of-period adjustment of $47.7 million; 2) lower store staff costs, inclusive of closed stores; 3) transformation cost savings; 4) the reduction of inventory charges related to the transformation plan from $62.2 million in Fiscal 2019 to $9.2 million in Fiscal 2020; and 5) the lapping of $167.4 million in charges related to the sale of eligible non-prime in-house accounts receivable in Fiscal 2019. Operating income was unfavorably impacted by a current year charge of $33.2 million, net of expected insurance recoveries, related to the proposed settlement of a shareholder litigation matter.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

nmNot meaningful.

In the fourth quarter, operating income (loss) was $223.2 million or 10.4% of sales compared to $(83.5) million or (3.9)% of sales in prior year fourth quarter. The operating income change reflected: 1) the benefit of lapping prior year charges of $286.7 million related to goodwill, 2) transformation cost savings, 3) lower advertising, 4) a $33.2 million charge, net of expected insurance recoveries, related to the proposed settlement of a shareholder litigation matter, and 5) higher incentive compensation.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

nmNot meaningful.

44
Interest expense, net

In Fiscal 2020, net interest expense was $35.6 million compared to $39.7 million in Fiscal 2019. In the fourth quarter, net interest expense was $7.7 million compared to $10.8 million in the prior year fourth quarter. The reduction in both periods resulted from lower average borrowings during the year compared to the prior year and the favorable impact of lower average interest rates due to the debt refinancing during the third quarter of Fiscal 2020. The weighted average interest rate for the Company’s debt outstanding, including the impact of debt issuance amortization, discounts, and other financing fees, for the full year was 6.0% compared to 5.6% in the prior year. The weighted average interest rate for the Company’s debt outstanding for the fourth quarter was 4.7% compared to 5.9% in the prior year fourth quarter.

See Note 23 of Item 8 for additional information on interest.

Other non-operating income, net

In Fiscal 2020, other non-operating income, net was $7.0 million compared to $1.7 million in Fiscal 2019. The increase reflects a $6.2 million net gain related to the completion of the Company’s debt refinancing, which consists of an $8.2 million net gain on the early extinguishment of the 4.700% Senior Notes due 2024 (the “Senior Notes”) of Signet UK Finance plc, Signet’s wholly-owned subsidiary, partially offset by a $2.0 million write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs related to the termination of the Company’s prior credit facility.

See Note 23 of Item 8 for additional information on the net gain on extinguishment and the Company’s refinancing activities.

Income taxes 

Income tax expense for Fiscal 2020 was $24.2 million compared to a benefit of $145.2 million in Fiscal 2019, with an effective tax rate of 18.7% for Fiscal 2020 compared to 18.1% in Fiscal 2019. In the fourth quarter, income tax expense was $27.9 million compared to expense of $13.9 million in the prior year fourth quarter. The higher effective tax rate was driven primarily by the impact of the non-deductible goodwill impairment charge offset by the pre-tax earnings mix by jurisdiction. The prior year fourth quarter tax expense was driven primarily by 1) the impact of the non-deductible goodwill impairment charge; 2) pre-tax earnings mix by jurisdiction; and 3) an out of period goodwill adjustment related to a deferred tax liability associated with the Zale acquisition. 

COMPARISON OF FISCAL 2019 TO FISCAL 2018 

•Same store sales: down 0.1%

•Diluted earnings (loss) per share: $(12.62) compared to $7.44 in Fiscal 2018

Sales

In Fiscal 2019, Signet’s same store sales decreased by 0.1%, compared to a decrease of 5.3% in Fiscal 2018, which excluded the impact of the 53rd week from its calculation. Total sales were $6.25 billion, down $5.9 million or 0.1%, compared to $6.25 billion in Fiscal 2018. The total sales decline was positively impacted by $111.2 million attributable to the new US GAAP revenue recognition accounting standard and $135.6 million from the addition of James Allen (acquired in September 2017). These factors were offset by net store closures of $160.4 million and the negative impact of comparison against a 53rd week in the prior year of $84.3 million. eCommerce sales were $682.4 million and 10.9% of sales compared to $497.7 million and 8.0% of sales in Fiscal 2018. 

45
The breakdown of Signet’s sales performance is set out in the table below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  The 53rd week in Fiscal 2018 has resulted in a shift in Fiscal 2019, as the fiscal year began a week later than the previous fiscal year. As such, same store sales for Fiscal 2019 are being calculated by aligning the weeks of the quarter to the same weeks in the prior year. Total reported sales continue to be calculated based on the reported fiscal periods.

(2)  Same store sales presented for James Allen to provide comparative performance measure.

(3) Includes sales from Signet’s diamond sourcing initiative. 

46
Average merchandise transaction value (“ATV”) is defined as net merchandise sales on a same store basis divided by the total number of customer transactions. As such, changes from the prior year do not recompute within the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  Net merchandise sales within the North America segment include all merchandise product sales, net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are sales tax in the US, repair, extended service plan, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(2) Net merchandise sales within the International segment include all merchandise product sales, including value added tax (“VAT”), net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are repairs, warranty, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(3) ATV presented for James Allen to provide comparative performance measure.

(4) Amounts for Peoples stores are denominated in Canadian dollars.

(5) Amounts for the International segment, including H.Samuel and Ernest Jones, are denominated in British pounds.

North America sales

The North America segment’s total sales were $5.64 billion compared to $5.62 billion in the prior year, up 0.5%. Same store sales increased 0.5% compared to a decrease of 5.2% in the prior year. North America’s ATV increased 4.3%, while the number of transactions decreased 3.0%. 

Same store sales results were positively impacted by approximately 175 bps of incremental clearance sales partially offset by 20 bps of unfavorable impact related to the shift of service plan revenue. eCommerce sales increased 43.1% on a reported basis (inclusive of James Allen which was acquired in September 2017) and brick and mortar sales declined 1.1% on a same store sales basis.

The percentage of sales from new merchandise increased during the year, but this performance was broadly offset by declines in legacy collections. Bridal and fashion sales each increased on a same store sales basis. Within bridal, The Enchanted Disney Fine Jewelry® collection, Vera Wang Love® collection, Neil Lane® collection, and solitaires performed well, while the Ever Us® collection declined. In fashion, gold fashion jewelry performed well, offset by declines in LeVian® and other legacy collections. The Other product category declined driven by a strategic reduction of owned brand beads, as well as declines in Pandora®. 

 International sales

In Fiscal 2019, the International segment’s total sales were $576.5 million, down 6.5%, compared to $616.7 million in Fiscal 2018. The same store sales decline was driven by lower sales in bridal jewelry, fashion jewelry and fashion watches, partially offset by higher sales in prestige watches. Same store sales decreased by 5.2% compared to a decrease of 6.0% in Fiscal 2018. ATV decreased 4.2% while the number of transaction decreased 0.9%. eCommerce sales increased 8.0% and brick and mortar sales declined 6.6% on a same store sales basis.

Fourth quarter sales

In the fourth quarter, Signet’s total sales were $2.15 billion, down $138.4 million or 6.0%, compared to an increase of 1.0% in the prior year fourth quarter. Same store sales were down 2.0% compared to a decrease of 5.2% in the prior year fourth quarter. The total sales decrease was positively impacted by $35.2 million attributable to the new US GAAP revenue recognition accounting standard offset by the comparison against a 14th week in Fiscal 2018 which contributed $84.3 million in sales in Fiscal 2018, $60.9 million from net store closures and $16.5 million of unfavorable foreign exchange translation. eCommerce sales in the fourth quarter were $260.6 million or 12.1% of total sales, compared to $253.8 million or 11.2% of total sales in the prior year fourth quarter. 

47
The breakdown of the sales performance is set out in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  The 14th week in Fiscal 2018 has resulted in a shift in Fiscal 2019, as the fiscal year began a week later than the previous fiscal year. As such, same store sales for Fiscal 2019 are being calculated by aligning the weeks of the quarter to the same weeks in the prior year. Total reported sales continue to be calculated based on the reported fiscal periods.

(2) Includes sales from Signet’s diamond sourcing initiative. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  Net merchandise sales within the North America segment include all merchandise product sales, net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are sales tax in the US, repair, extended service plan, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(2) Net merchandise sales within the International segment include all merchandise product sales, including value added tax (“VAT”), net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are repairs, warranty, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(3) Amounts for Peoples stores are denominated in Canadian dollars.

(4) Amounts for the International segment, including H.Samuel and Ernest Jones, are denominated in British pounds.

North America sales

The North America segment’s total sales were $1.94 billion compared to $2.06 billion in the prior year, down 5.5%. Same store sales decreased 1.4% compared to a decrease of 4.7% in the prior year. The North America segment’s ATV increased 2.2%, while the number of transactions decreased 4.0%.

Same store sales results include a favorable impact of 65 bps of incremental clearance, a favorable impact of 40 bps due to a planned shift in timing of promotions at Zales and Peoples and a 25 bps unfavorable impact related to a timing shift of service plan revenue recognized as discussed above. eCommerce sales increased 6.9% and brick and mortar sales declined 2.5% on a same store sales basis.

48
The percentage of sales from new merchandise increased during the quarter, but this performance was more than offset by declines in legacy collections. Bridal sales were flat on a same store sales basis. Within bridal, engagement sales increased while anniversary sales declined. Anniversary sales were unfavorably impacted by declines in the Ever Us® collection. The Enchanted Disney Fine Jewelry® collection, Vera Wang Love® collection, Neil Lane® collection, and solitaires performed well. Fashion category sales decreased, with gold fashion jewelry, Disney fashion jewelry, and the Love + Be LovedTM collection performing well, offset by declines in the LeVian® and other legacy collections. The Other product category declined, driven by a strategic reduction of owned brand beads, as well as declines in Pandora®. 

International sales

The International segment’s total sales decreased 16.6% to $195.0 million compared to $233.9 million in the prior year and decreased 12.0% at constant exchange rates. Same store sales decreased 7.3% compared to a decrease of 9.2% in the prior year. The same store sales decline was driven by lower sales in bridal jewelry, fashion jewelry and fashion watches, partially offset by higher sales in prestige watches. In the International segment’s ATV decreased 5.4%, while the number of transactions decreased 2.3%. eCommerce sales declined 6.9% and brick and mortar sales declined 7.3% on a same store sales basis.

Cost of sales and Gross margin 

In Fiscal 2019, gross margin was $2.16 billion or 34.6% of sales compared to $2.19 billion or 35.0% of sales in Fiscal 2018. Gross margin was negatively impacted by $62.2 million, or 100 bps, in restructuring charges related to net inventory write-downs taken during the year. The write-downs relate to brands and collections that the Company is discontinuing as part of its transformation plan to increase newness across merchandise categories. Transformation cost savings related to direct sourcing and distribution were offset by sales deleverage and higher mix of clearance inventory sales and impact of promotional environment. In addition, lower store occupancy due to store closures also favorably impacted gross margin. Additional factors impacting gross margin rate include: 1) a positive 220 basis point impact related to discontinuing the recognition of bad debt expense and late charge income; 2) a negative 40 basis point impact related to James Allen, which carries a lower gross margin rate; and 3) a negative 40 basis point impact from the discontinuation of credit insurance. 

In the fourth quarter, the consolidated gross margin was $877.8 million or 40.7% of sales compared to $919.8 million or 40.1% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. Factors impacting gross margin rate include: 1) a positive 250 bps impact related to no longer recognizing bad debt expense and late charge income; 2) a negative 40 bps impact related to an inventory write-down; 3) a negative 30 bps impact related to adopting the new US GAAP revenue recognition accounting standard, including higher revenue share payments associated with the prime credit outsourcing arrangement; and 4) a negative 10 bps impact related to a timing shift of revenue recognized on service plans. The residual factors impacting gross margin rate include deleverage from lower sales and the impact of promotional and incremental clearance sales partially offset by transformation cost savings. 

See Note 7 of Item 8 for additional information regarding the Company’s restructuring activities.

Selling, general and administrative Expenses (“SGA”)

Selling, general and administrative expenses for Fiscal 2019 were $1.99 billion or 31.8% of sales compared to $1.87 billion or 29.9% of sales in Fiscal 2018, up $112.9 million. SGA increased primarily due to: 1) a $100 million increase in credit costs related to the transition to an outsourced credit model; 2) a $30 million increase in advertising expense; 3) a $20 million increase in incentive compensation expense, which included $6 million of one-time cash awards to non-managerial hourly team members; and an $11 million charge related to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory matter. Increases in SGA were partially offset by a $15 million decrease in store staff costs and transformation cost savings, net of investments. Prior year SGA included $30.5 million in expense related to the 53rd week.

In the fourth quarter, SGA expense was $647.2 million or 30.0% of sales compared to $634.5 million or 27.7% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. Factors impacting SGA include: 1) a $42 million, or 200 bps, increase in credit costs related to the transition to an outsourced credit model; 2) an $11 million, or 50 bps, charge related to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory matter; and 3) a $3 million, or 10 bps, decrease in incentive compensation. Increases in SGA were partially offset by transformation net cost savings and lower store staff costs primarily due to closed stores. Prior year SGA included $30.5 million in expense related to the 14th week.

Credit transaction, net

In June 2018, the Company completed the sale of all eligible non-prime in-house accounts receivable. During Fiscal 2019, the Company recognized charges of $167.4 million as a result of the sale of the non-prime in-house accounts receivable. This included total valuation losses of $160.4 million representing adjustments to the asset fair value and other transaction-related costs of $7.0 million. 

See Note 4 of Item 8 for additional information.

49
Restructuring charges

During the first quarter of Fiscal 2019, Signet launched a three-year comprehensive transformation plan, the “Signet Path to Brilliance” plan (the “Plan”), to reposition the Company to be a share gaining, OmniChannel jewelry category leader. During Fiscal 2019, restructuring charges of $63.7 million were recognized, $22.7 million of which were non-cash charges, primarily related to professional fees for legal and consulting services, severance and impairment of information technology assets related to the Plan. Additionally, during Fiscal 2019, the Company recorded charges of $62.2 million in non-cash restructuring charges related to inventory write-offs within cost of sales.

In the fourth quarter, restructuring charges of $28.1 million, of which $11.7 million were non-cash charges, were recognized primarily related to store closure costs, professional fees for legal and consulting services, and severance related to the Plan. Additionally, during the fourth quarter, the Company recorded a net non-cash adjustment of $(1.0) million to charges related to prior period inventory write-offs within cost of sales. 

See Note 7 of Item 8 for additional information.

Goodwill and intangible impairments

In Fiscal 2019, the Company recorded non-cash goodwill and intangible asset impairment pre-tax charges of $735.4 million, of which $448.7 million were recorded in the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 and $286.7 million were recorded in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019.

The first quarter charge was related to the write down of goodwill and intangible assets recognized in the North America segment as part of the Zale Corporation acquisition, as well as goodwill associated with the acquisition of Ultra Stores, Inc. The decline in the Company’s market capitalization during the first quarter created a triggering event for impairment assessment purposes. Revised long-term projections associated with finalizing certain initial aspects of our Path to Brilliance transformation plan in the first quarter combined with a higher discount rate driven by risk premium utilized in the valuation, resulted in lower than previously projected long-term future cash flows for these businesses, which required an adjustment to the goodwill and intangible asset balances.

The fourth quarter charge was related to the write down of goodwill and intangible assets recognized in the North America segment as part of the R2Net acquisition (James Allen) and intangible assets recognized as part of the Zale Corporation acquisition. The decline in the Company’s market capitalization during the fourth quarter created a triggering event for impairment assessment purposes. Revised long-term projections and a higher discount rate driven by risk premium utilized in the valuation associated with James Allen resulted in lower than previously projected long-term future cash flows for this business, which required a $261.4 million adjustment to the goodwill and intangible asset balances. The revised outlook for James Allen is a result of a higher than expected unfavorable impact related to sales tax implementation as well as a more competitive online jewelry marketplace. The remaining impairment charge of $25.3 million is attributable to intangibles associated with the Zale acquisition and goodwill recognized as part of the acquisition of the Company's diamond polishing factory in Botswana.

The impairment charges above did not have an impact on the Company’s day to day operations or liquidity. See Note 17 of Item 8 for additional information on the impairments.

Other operating income (loss)

In Fiscal 2019, other operating income was $26.2 million or 0.4% of sales compared to $260.8 million or 4.2% of sales in Fiscal 2018. In the fourth quarter, other operating income was $0.7 million or 0.0% of sales compared to $39.5 million or 1.7% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. The year-over-year decrease was primarily driven by $28.0 million in other expense related to the sale of the prime-only credit quality portion of Sterling’s in-house finance receivable portfolio during the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, partially offset by the 53rd week which added $1.3 million of other income in Fiscal 2018. 

See Note 4 of Item 8 for additional information regarding the Company’s credit transaction.

Operating income (loss)

In Fiscal 2019, operating income (loss) was $(764.6) million or (12.2)% of sales compared to $579.9 million or 9.3% of sales in Fiscal 2018. The prior year operating income includes a favorable impact from the 53rd week of $9.3 million. Excluding the 53rd week impact, the decline was driven by the following: 1) the $735.4 million goodwill and intangible impairment charge; 2) $125.9 million in restructuring charges related to inventory write-downs, severance, professional fees and impairment of certain IT assets related to the three year transformation plan; 3) $167.4 million loss related to marking the non-prime receivables to fair value that were sold in the second quarter; 4) $11.0 million charge related to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory matter; 6) the discontinuation of credit insurance; 7) $167.0 million net unfavorable impact related to the outsourcing of credit; and 8) impact of higher promotions and incremental clearance sales on gross margin and lastly higher SGA due primarily to advertising and higher incentive compensation. These declines were partially offset by transformation net cost savings of $85.0 million. 

50
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) For Fiscal 2019, includes: 1) $731.8 million related to the goodwill and intangible impairments; 2) $52.7 million related to inventory charges recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities; and 3) $160.4 million from the valuation losses related to the sale of eligible non-prime in-house accounts receivable. See Note 17, Note 7 and Note 4, respectively, of Item 8 for additional information. Fiscal 2018 amount includes $20.7 million gain related to the reversal of the allowance for credit losses for the in-house receivables sold, as well as the $10.2 million gain upon recognition of beneficial interest in connection with the sale of the prime portion of in-house receivables. See Note 4 of Item 8 for additional information.

(2) Fiscal 2019 includes $3.8 million related to inventory charges recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities. See Note 7 of Item 8 for additional information.

(3) For Fiscal 2019, includes: 1) $69.4 million related to charges recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities including inventory charges; 2) $11.0 million related to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory matter; 3) $7.0 million representing transaction costs associated with the sale of the non-prime in-house accounts receivable; and 4) $3.6 million of goodwill and intangible impairments. See Note 7, Note 26, Note 4 and Note 17 of Item 8 for additional information. For Fiscal 2018, Other includes $29.6 million of transaction costs related to the credit transaction, $8.6 million of R2Net acquisition costs, and $3.4 million of CEO transition costs. See Note 4 and Note 5 of Item 8 for additional information regarding credit transaction and acquisition of R2Net, respectively.

nmNot meaningful.

In the fourth quarter, operating income (loss) was $(83.5) million or (3.9)% of sales compared to $323.5 million or 14.1% of sales in prior year fourth quarter. The prior year operating income includes a favorable impact from the 14th week of $9.3 million. Excluding the 14th week impact, the decline was driven by the following: 1) $286.7 million goodwill and intangible impairment charge; 2) $27.1 million in restructuring charges related to store closures costs, severance and professional fees related to the three year transformation plan; 3) $11 million charge related to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory matter; 4) $13 million net unfavorable impact related to the outsourcing of credit; and 5) an $8.8 million inventory write-down. The residual factors impacting operating income include the impact of lower sales and higher promotions and clearance sales partially offset by transformation net cost savings. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Fiscal 2019 includes $286.7 million and $1.0 million related to the goodwill and intangible impairments recognized in the fourth quarter and net adjustment to to charges recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities including inventory charges, respectively. See Note 15 and Note 7, respectively, of Item 8 for additional information.

(2) Fiscal 2019 includes a $28.1 million and $11.0 million related to charges recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities and the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory matter, respectively. See Note 7 of Item 8 for additional information.

nmNot meaningful.

Interest expense, net

In Fiscal 2019, net interest expense was $39.7 million compared to $52.7 million in Fiscal 2018 driven primarily by the repayment of the $600 million asset-backed securitization facility in the third quarter of Fiscal 2018. The weighted average interest rate for the Company’s debt outstanding was 4.0% compared to 3.2% in the prior year. 

In the fourth quarter, net interest expense was $10.8 million compared to $10.0 million in the prior year fourth quarter. The weighted average interest rate for the Company’s debt outstanding was 4.1% compared to 3.6% in the prior year fourth quarter.

Income (loss) before income taxes

In Fiscal 2019, income (loss) before income taxes decreased $1.33 billion to $(802.6) million or (12.8)% of sales compared to $527.2 million or 8.4% of sales in Fiscal 2018. 

In the fourth quarter, income (loss) before income taxes decreased $(407.5) million to $(94.0) million or (4.4)% of sales compared to $313.5 million or 13.7% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. 

51
Income taxes 

Income tax benefit for Fiscal 2019 was $145.2 million compared to expense of $7.9 million in Fiscal 2018, with an effective tax rate of 18.1% for Fiscal 2019 compared to 1.5% in Fiscal 2018. In the fourth quarter, income tax benefit was $13.9 million compared to expense of $37.8 million in the prior year fourth quarter. The higher effective tax rates were driven primarily by 1) the impact of the non-deductible goodwill impairment charge; 2) pre-tax earnings mix by jurisdiction; and 3) an out of period correction related to a deferred tax liability associated with the Zale acquisition. The prior year fourth quarter tax benefit was driven by the favorable impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 together with pre-tax earnings mix by jurisdiction.

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted “An Act to Provide for Reconciliation Pursuant to Titles II and V of the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2018,” which is commonly referred to as “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (the “TCJ Act”). The TCJ Act provides for comprehensive tax legislation which significantly modifies the U.S. corporate income tax system. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the TCJ Act, we made reasonable estimates of its effects and recorded provisional amounts in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended February 3, 2018, consistent with applicable SEC guidance. We have completed these analyses during the year ended February 2, 2019, and no material adjustment to the provisional estimate recorded in the prior year was required.

We anticipate that the effective tax rate in future years will be favorably impacted by the lower federal statutory corporate tax rate of 21.0 percent offset by limitations of certain deductions and the base broadening changes. See Note 12 of Item 8 for additional information regarding the Company’s income taxes and the impact of the TCJ Act. 

Net income (loss)

Net income (loss) for Fiscal 2019 was down 226.6% to $(657.4) million or (10.5)% of sales compared to $519.3 million or 8.3% of sales in Fiscal 2018. 

For the fourth quarter, net income (loss) was down 130.7% to $(107.9) million or (5.0)% of sales compared to $351.3 million or 15.3% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. 

Earnings (loss) per share (“EPS”) 

For Fiscal 2019, diluted earnings (loss) per share were $(12.62) compared to $7.44 in Fiscal 2018. The weighted average diluted number of common shares outstanding was 54.7 million compared to 69.8 million in Fiscal 2018. Signet repurchased 8.8 million shares in Fiscal 2019 compared to 8.1 million shares in Fiscal 2018. Diluted EPS for Fiscal 2019 includes a loss of $12.26 related to the goodwill and intangible impairments, a loss of $2.11 related to the sale of non-prime receivables, a loss of $1.77 related to the Path to Brilliance transformation plan and a loss of $0.20 related to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory matter.

For the fourth quarter, diluted earnings (loss) per share were $(2.25) compared to $5.24 in the prior year fourth quarter, down 143.0%. The weighted average diluted number of common shares outstanding was 51.6 million compared to 67.0 million in the prior year fourth quarter. Diluted EPS in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019 includes a loss of $4.78 related to the goodwill and intangible impairments, a loss of $0.37 related to the Path to Brilliance transformation plan and a loss of $0.20 related to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory matter.

The Company issued preferred shares on October 5, 2016, which include a cumulative dividend right and may be converted into common shares. The Company’s computation of diluted earnings per share includes the effect of potential common shares for outstanding awards issued under the Company’s share-based compensation plans and preferred shares upon conversion, if dilutive. In computing diluted EPS, the Company also adjusts the numerator used in the basic EPS computation, subject to anti-dilution requirements, to add back the dividends (declared or cumulative undeclared) applicable to the preferred shares. For the fourth quarter and year to date Fiscal 2019 periods, the dilutive effect related to preferred shares was excluded from the earnings per share computation as the preferred shares were anti-dilutive. For the fourth quarter and year to date Fiscal 2018 periods, the preferred shares were more dilutive if conversion was assumed. See Item 8 for additional information related to the preferred shares (Note 8) or the calculation of earnings per share (Note 10).

Dividends per common share

In Fiscal 2019, total dividends of $1.48 were declared by the Board of Directors compared to $1.24 in Fiscal 2018.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Overview

The Company’s primary sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash provided by operations and availability under its ABL Revolving Facility (defined below). As of February 1, 2020, the Company had $374.5 million of cash and cash equivalents and $613.1 million of outstanding debt. 

52
As a result of the business disruption created by COVID-19, including temporary broadscale store closures, the Company is aggressively reducing overall capital expenditures, prioritizing digital investments to enhance its new and modernized eCommerce platform and provide a frictionless shopping experience for customers. This will include flexible fulfillment which unlocks store level inventory and enables buy online pick up in store. Inventory management will continue to be a strategic focus for the Company. Transformational cost reductions include using data and analytics to drive marketing efficiencies, significantly reducing discretionary spend, implementing temporary reduced work hours and furloughs across store and support center teams, and lowering cash compensation for executives and the Company’s Board of Directors. 

In addition, as a prudent measure to increase the Company’s financial flexibility and bolster its cash position, on March 19, 2020, the Company elected to access an additional $900 million on the ABL Revolving Facility. At the time of draw down, the Company had more than $1.2 billion in cash and approximately $292 million available on the ABL Revolving Facility.

As further described below, the ABL Revolving Facility is subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio if excess availability under the facility falls below 10% of the borrowing base or $100 million, whichever is higher. The Company's most recently reported borrowing base under the ABL Revolving Facility as of the date of the draw down was approximately $1.4 billion. The Company’s Senior Notes (as defined below) due in 2024 are not subject to financial covenants.

The Company believes that cash on hand, cash flows from operations and available borrowings under the ABL Revolving Facility will be sufficient to meet business requirements, including funding working capital needs, projected investments (including capital expenditures), and debt service.

Primary sources and uses of operating cash flows

Operating activities provide the primary source of cash for the Company and are influenced by a number of factors, the most significant of which are operating income and changes in working capital items, such as:

•changes in the level of inventory as a result of sales and other strategic initiatives (i.e. store count);

•changes and timing of accounts payable and accrued expenses, including variable compensation; and

•changes in deferred revenue, reflective of the revenue from performance of extended service plans.

Signet derives most of its operating cash flows through the sale of merchandise and extended service plans. As a retail business, Signet receives cash when it makes a sale to a customer or when the payment has been processed by Signet or the relevant bank if the payment is made by third-party credit or debit card. As further discussed in Note 4 of Item 8, the Company has outsourced its prime and non-prime credit portfolios, and it receives cash from its outsourced financing partners (net of applicable fees) within two days of the customer sale. Offsetting these receipts, the Company’s largest operating expenses are the purchase of inventory, store occupancy costs (including rent), and payroll and payroll-related benefits.

Summary cash flows

The following table provides a summary of Signet’s cash flow activity for Fiscal 2020, Fiscal 2019 and Fiscal 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating activities[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

53
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Forward-flow receivables outsourcing agreement with Investors

In conjunction with the sale of the majority of Signet’s non-prime in-house accounts receivable to CarVal and Castlelake (collectively, the “Investors”), beginning in June 2018, the Investors began purchasing the majority of forward flow receivables of Signet’s non-prime credit from Signet for a five-year term. As previously disclosed, the Investors have a right to terminate the purchase of the forward flow receivables if the realized yield falls below an agreed upon threshold measured at certain contractual measurement dates. As of the most recent contractual measurement date, December 31, 2019, the realized yield for the forward flow receivables was below the agreed upon threshold, which gave the Investors the right to terminate. On March 23, 2020, CarVal provided notice to the Company that it was terminating the agreement effective the same day. In the notice of termination, CarVal stated that it is willing to provide a 30-day purchase facility at substantially the same terms as the terminated agreement, but for a fixed term of 30 days from March 23, 2020. Signet is in discussions with CarVal regarding such transition agreement. Castlelake has informed Signet that, subject to their reservation of rights, they do not currently intend to terminate their agreement. On March 25, 2020, Castlelake and Signet entered into a non-binding memorandum of understanding (“MOU”) regarding the parties’ shared interest in a potential definitive agreement whereby Castlelake would purchase 100% of the funding obligations on the forward flow and add on purchases on a go-forward basis. The above developments have no impact on the sale of the non-prime in-house accounts receivable completed in June 2018 and only applies to future forward flow receivables on a go-forward basis, which represented approximately 7% of Signet’s Fiscal 2020 revenue. Signet’s agreement with the credit servicer, Genesis, remains in place. Signet believes that the termination by CarVal will not have a material adverse impact on its financial condition or results of operations.

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities was $140.8 million compared to $119.0 million in the prior period. Cash used in each period was primarily for capital additions associated with new stores and remodels of existing stores, as well as capital investments in IT.

54
Stores opened and closed in Fiscal 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities in Fiscal 2020 was $237.0 million, comprised primarily of $108.6 million for dividend payments on common and preferred shares and net debt repayments of $166.4 million. See further information on debt movements below.

Net cash used in financing activities in Fiscal 2019 was $602.7 million, comprised primarily of $485.0 million for the repurchase of common shares, $110.2 million for dividend payments on common and preferred shares, and $31.3 million for net debt repayments.

Movement in Cash and Indebtedness

Cash and cash equivalents at February 1, 2020 were $374.5 million compared to $195.4 million as of February 2, 2019. Signet has significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents invested in various ‘AAA’ rated liquidity funds and at a number of financial institutions. The amount invested in each liquidity fund or at each financial institution takes into account the credit rating and size of the liquidity fund or financial institution and is invested for short-term durations.

During Fiscal 2020, the Company completed a debt refinancing which included the termination of the Company’s previous credit facility and the settlement of a portion of its Senior Notes, as well as entering into a new five-year asset based lending facility, which consisted of a $1.5 billion ABL Revolving Facility and $100.0 million FILO Term Loan Facility (collectively, the “ABL Facility”). Refer to Note 23 of Item 8 for further information regarding the debt refinancing activities.

At February 1, 2020, Signet had $613.1 million of outstanding debt, comprised of $147.5 million of Senior Notes, $270.0 million on the ABL Revolving Facility, $100.0 million on the FILO Term Loan Facility, and other loans and bank overdrafts totaling $95.6 million. During Fiscal 2020, as a result of the above noted refinancing activities, the Company repaid $294.9 million and terminated the term loan under the prior credit facility and paid $241.5 million (including third party fees) to settle a portion of the Senior Notes. Additionally, the Company borrowed $100.0 million on the FILO Term Loan Facility and had net borrowings of $270.0 million on the ABL Revolving Facility.

At February 2, 2019, Signet had $734.0 million of outstanding debt, comprised of $399.0 million of Senior Notes, $294.9 million outstanding on its then current term loan facility, and bank overdrafts totaling $40.1 million.

The Company had stand-by letters of credit on the ABL Revolving Facility of $14.9 million as of February 1, 2020 that reduced remaining borrowing availability. Available borrowings under the ABL Revolving Facility were $1.2 billion as of February 1, 2020.

Net debt was $237.0 million as of February 1, 2020 compared to net debt of $533.0 million as of February 2, 2019.

55
Capital availability

Signet’s level of borrowings and cash balances fluctuates during the year reflecting the seasonality of its cash flow requirements and business performance. Notwithstanding the aforementioned potential impacts of COVID-19, management believes that cash balances and the committed borrowing facilities (including the ABL Facility described more fully in Note 23 of Item 8) currently available to the business are sufficient for both its present and near term requirements. The following table provides a summary of these items as of February 1, 2020, February 2, 2019 and February 3, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes cash and cash equivalents

If the excess availability under the ABL Revolving Facility falls below the threshold specified in the ABL Facility agreement, the Company will be required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.00 to 1.00. As of February 1, 2020, the threshold related to the fixed coverage ratio was approximately $150 million. The ABL Facility also places certain restrictions upon the Company’s ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, grant liens and make certain loans, investments and divestitures. This payment restrictions threshold was approximately $260 million as of February 1, 2020.

As of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants.

Credit Rating

The following table provides Signet’s credit ratings as of February 1, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Merchandise held on consignment

Signet held $625.7 million of consignment inventory which is not recorded on the balance sheet at February 1, 2020, as compared to $726.8 million at February 2, 2019. The principal terms of the consignment agreements, which can generally be terminated by either party, are such that Signet can return any, or all of, the inventory to the relevant supplier without financial or commercial penalty.

Contingent property liabilities

At February 1, 2020, approximately 18 property leases had been assigned by Signet to third parties (and remained unexpired and occupied by assignees at that date) and approximately four additional properties were sub-let at that date. Should the assignees or sub-tenants fail to fulfill any obligations in respect of those leases or any other leases which have at any other time been assigned or sub-let, Signet or one of its UK subsidiaries may be liable for those defaults. The number of such claims arising to date has been small, and the liability, which is charged to the consolidated statements of operations as it arises, has not been material.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

Long-term debt obligations comprise borrowings with an original maturity of greater than one year. It is expected that operating commitments will be funded from future operating cash flows and no additional facilities will be required to meet these obligations. Additional information regarding Signet’s long-term debt is available in Note 23 included in Item 8.

Operating lease obligations represent future minimum lease payments for operating leases having non-cancelable terms in excess of one year. Variable lease costs such as contingent rent and variable rent increases are excluded from the calculation of minimum lease payments. Additional information regarding Signet’s operating leases is available in Note 17 included in Item 8.

56
Contractual obligations as of February 1, 2020 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes principal payments on all long-term debt obligations.

(2) Includes future interest payments on all long-term debt obligations, inclusive of both fixed- and variable-rate debt. Projected interest costs on variable rate debt were calculated using rates in effect at February 1, 2020. Amounts exclude the amortization of debt discounts, the amortization of loan fees and fees for lines of credit that would be included in interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations.

(3) Operating lease obligations relate to minimum payments due under store lease arrangements. Real estate taxes, insurance and common area maintenance fees were approximately are excluded in the table above.

Not included in the table above are obligations under employment agreements and ordinary course purchase orders for merchandise.

IMPACT OF INFLATION

The impact of inflation on Signet’s results for the past three years has not been significant apart from the impact of the commodity costs changes, and in the UK, the impact on merchandise costs due to the currency translation of the British pound against the US dollar.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Critical accounting policies covering areas of greater complexity that are subject to the exercise of judgment due to the reliance on key estimates are listed below. A comprehensive listing of Signet’s significant accounting policies is set forth in Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

Revenue recognition for extended service plans and lifetime warranty agreements (“ESP”)

The Company recognizes revenue related to ESP sales in proportion to when the expected costs will be incurred. The deferral period for ESP sales is determined from patterns of claims costs, including estimates of future claims costs expected to be incurred. Management reviews the trends in claims to assess whether changes are required to the revenue and cost recognition rates utilized. A significant change in estimates related to the time period or pattern in which warranty-related costs are expected to be incurred could materially impact revenues. All direct costs associated with the sale of these plans are deferred and amortized in proportion to the revenue recognized and disclosed as either other current assets or other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. These direct costs primarily include sales commissions and credit card fees. Amortization of deferred ESP selling costs is included within selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations.

The North America segment sells ESP, subject to certain conditions, to perform repair work over the life of the product. Customers generally pay for ESP at the store at the time of merchandise sale. Revenue from the sale of the lifetime ESP is recognized consistent with the estimated pattern of claim costs expected to be incurred by the Company in connection with performing under the ESP obligations. Lifetime ESP revenue is deferred and recognized over a maximum of 17 years after the sale of the warranty contract. Although claims experience varies between our national banners, thereby resulting in different recognition rates, approximately 55% of revenue is recognized within the first two years on a weighted average basis.

Goodwill and intangibles 

In a business combination, the Company estimates and records the fair value of identifiable intangible assets and liabilities acquired. The fair value of these intangible assets and liabilities is estimated based on management’s assessment, including determination of appropriate valuation technique and consideration of any third party appraisals, when necessary. Significant estimates in valuing intangible assets and liabilities acquired include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows associated with the acquired asset or liability, expected life and discount rates. The excess purchase price over the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill. Goodwill is recorded by the Company’s reporting units based on the acquisitions made by each.

57
Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, such as indefinite-lived trade names, are evaluated for impairment annually. Additionally, if events or conditions were to indicate the carrying value of a reporting unit or an indefinite-lived intangible asset may be greater than its fair value, the Company would evaluate the asset for impairment at that time. Impairment testing compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit or other intangible assets with its fair value. When the carrying amount of the reporting unit or other intangible assets exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recorded.

The impairment test for goodwill involves estimating the fair value of all assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including the implied fair value of goodwill, through either estimated discounted future cash flows or market-based methodologies. The impairment test for other indefinite-lived intangible assets involves estimating the fair value of the asset, which is typically performed using the relief from royalty method for indefinite-lived trade names.

The fair value methodologies used by the Company in testing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets include assumptions related to sales trends, discount rates, royalty rates and other assumptions that are judgmental in nature. If future economic conditions are different than those projected by management in its most recent impairment tests for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, future impairment charges may be required. See Note 18 for further details.

 Income taxes

Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the consolidated financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized by applying statutory tax rates in effect in the years in which the differences between the financial reporting and tax filing bases of existing assets and liabilities are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is established against deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management’s evaluation of all available evidence, both positive and negative, including reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and results of recent operations. The Company recorded a valuation allowance of $38.4 million and $38.9 million, as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, respectively, due to uncertainties related to the Company’s ability to utilize some of the deferred tax assets, primarily consisting of net operating losses, foreign tax credits and capital losses carried forward.

The annual effective tax rate is based on annual income, statutory tax rates and tax planning strategies available in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. The Company does not recognize tax benefits related to positions taken on certain tax matters unless the position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. At any point in time, various tax years are subject to or are in the process of being audited by various taxing authorities. The Company records a reserve for uncertain tax positions, including interest and penalties. To the extent that management’s estimates of settlements change, or the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determinations are made.See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information regarding deferred tax assets and unrecognized tax benefits.

Leases

Signet adopted ASU 2016-02 and related updates effective February 3, 2019 using the additional transition method provided for in ASU No. 2018-11, “Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements,” which permitted the Company as of the effective date of ASU 2016-02 to recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption. The impact of this approach was deemed immaterial upon adoption of ASU 2016-02. As part of the adoption of ASU 2016-02, the Company utilized the practical expedient relief package, as well as the short-term leases and portfolio approach practical expedients.

Signet occupies certain properties and holds machinery and vehicles under operating leases. Signet determines if an arrangement is a lease at the agreement’s inception. Certain operating leases include predetermined rent increases, which are charged to store occupancy costs within cost of sales on a straight-line basis over the lease term, including any construction period or other rental holiday. Other variable amounts paid under operating leases, such as taxes and common area maintenance, are charged to selling, general and administrative expenses as incurred. Premiums paid to acquire short-term leasehold properties and inducements to enter into a lease are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. In addition, certain leases provide for contingent rent based on a percentage of sales in excess of a predetermined level. Further, certain leases provide for variable rent increases based on indexes specified within the lease agreement. As the contingent rent and variable increases are not measurable at inception, the amounts are excluded from minimum rent and the calculation of the operating lease liability. These amounts are included in variable lease cost and included in the determination of total lease cost when it is probable that the expense has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and current and non-current operating lease liabilities in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets.

58
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent the Company’s obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of the Company’s leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate available at the lease commencement date, based primarily on the underlying lease term, in measuring the present value of lease payments. Lease terms, which include the period of the lease that can not be canceled, may also include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise that option. The operating lease ROU asset may also include initial direct costs, prepaid and/or accrued lease payments and the unamortized balance of lease incentives received. ROU assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable in accordance with the Company’s long-lived asset impairment assessment policy.

Payments arising from operating lease activity, as well as variable and short-term lease payments not included within the operating lease liability, are included as operating activities on the Company’s consolidated statement of cash flows. Operating lease payments representing costs to ready an asset for its intended use (i.e. leasehold improvements) are represented within investing activities within the Company’s consolidated statements of cash flows.

Accounting changes and recent accounting standards

For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting standards, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK