Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, certain commodity prices, including SOP and diesel fuel, and foreign currency rates. We do not specifically hedge our exposure to these risks. 

We are subject to market risks arising from changes in interest rates which relate primarily to our financing activities. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive debt instruments. Our potential additional interest expense over one year that would result from a hypothetical, instantaneous and unfavorable change of 100 basis points in the interest rate on all of our variable rate obligations would be approximately $19.7 million on a pre-tax basis. 

We have exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. We have subsidiaries in 17 foreign countries whose revenues and expenses are denominated in local currency and who use local currency denominated lines of credit for their funding needs. We translate results of operations of our international operations using an average exchange rate. We have quantified and described the impact of foreign currency translation on our revenues. We estimate, that based upon the amounts reported by individual countries during the year ended December 31, 2019 and prevailing exchange rates at that date a 1% devaluation of all the functional currencies of each of our foreign businesses would result in a reduction of approximately $2.1 million in the Net (loss) income attributable to Stericycle, Inc. reported in our Consolidated Statements of (Loss) Income. 

In addition, Argentina is classified as a highly inflationary economy, resulting in foreign exchange gains and losses arising from the translation of our Argentinian peso denominated net monetary assets being  

2019 10-K Annual Report   

Stericycle, Inc. • 65   

PART II 

recognized in net income.  The foreign exchange losses recognized for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were $3.3 million and $3.8 million, respectively.  On an ongoing basis, we estimate that, based on our Argentinian Peso denominated net monetary asset position as of December 31, 2019, we will record additional exchange losses of approximately $0.1 million for each 1% devaluation from the December 31, 2019 Argentinian Peso rate of exchange versus the U.S. dollar.  As of December 31, 2019, we had net monetary assets of approximately $8.2 million relating to our operations in Argentina. 

We have cumulative currency translation adjustment losses as of December 31, 2019 of approximately $318.1 million which are subject to continued fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency rates. In addition, to the extent that we sell substantially all of the operations within one country, similar to the transactions undertaken in Mexico and Chile during 2019, we would be required to recognize, in the Statements of (Loss) Income, the accumulated currency translation losses or gains associated with that country. 

2019 10-K Annual Report   

Stericycle, Inc. • 66   

PART II 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data