PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Southwestern Energy Company (including its subsidiaries, collectively, “we”, “our”, “us”, “the Company” or “Southwestern”) is an independent energy company engaged in exploration, development and production activities, including the related marketing of natural gas, oil and natural gas liquids (“NGLs”) produced in our operations. Southwestern is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. Currently we operate exclusively in the United States. Our common stock is listed and traded on the NYSE under the ticker symbol “SWN.”

Southwestern, which is incorporated in Delaware, has its executive offices located at 10000 Energy Drive, Spring, Texas 77389, and can be reached by phone at 832-796-1000. The Company also maintains offices in Tunkhannock, Pennsylvania and Morgantown, West Virginia. 

Our Business Strategy

We aim to deliver sustainable and industry-leading returns through excellence in exploration and production and marketing performance from our extensive resource base and targeted expansion of our activities and assets along the hydrocarbon value chain. Our Company’s formula embodies our corporate philosophy and guides how we operate our business:

Our formula, “The Right People doing the Right Things, wisely investing the cash flow from our underlying Assets will create Value+,” also guides our business strategy. We always strive to attract and retain strong talent, to work safely and act ethically with unwavering vigilance for the environment and the communities in which we operate, and to creatively apply technical skills, which we believe will grow long-term value for our shareholders. The arrow in our formula is not a straight line: we acknowledge that factors may adversely affect quarter-by-quarter results, but the path over time points to value creation.

In applying these core principles, we concentrate on:

•Financial Strength. We are committed to rigorously managing our balance sheet and financial risks. We budget to invest from our net cash flow from operations, supplemented during 2019 and 2020 by a portion of the proceeds from the 2018 Fayetteville Shale sale (described below). Additionally, we protect our projected cash flows through hedging and continue to maintain a strong balance sheet with ample liquidity. 

•Increasing Margins. We apply strong technical, operational, commercial and marketing skills to reduce costs, improve the productivity of our wells and pursue commercial arrangements to extract greater value. We believe our demonstrated ability to improve margins, especially by leveraging the scale of our large assets, gives us a competitive advantage as we move into the future.

•Exercising Capital Allocation Discipline. We continually assess market conditions in order to adjust our capital allocation decisions to maximize shareholder returns. This allocation process includes consideration of multiple alternatives including but not limited to the development of our natural gas and oil assets, strategic acquisitions, reducing debt and returning capital to our shareholders.

•Operational Value Creation. We prepare an economic analysis for our drilling programs and other investments based upon the expected net present value added for each dollar to be invested, which we refer to as Present Value Index, or PVI. We target projects that generate the highest returns in excess of our cost of capital. This disciplined investment approach governs our investment decisions at all times, including the current lower-price commodity market.

•Dynamic Management of Assets Throughout Life Cycle. We own large-scale, long-life assets in various phases of development. In early stages, we ramp up development through technical, operational and commercial skills, and as they grow we look for ways to maximize their value through efficient operating practices along with applying our commercial and marketing expertise.

•Deepening Our Inventory. We continue to expand the inventory of properties that we can develop profitably by converting our extensive resources into proved reserves, targeting additions whose productivity largely has been demonstrated and improving efficiencies in production.

4
Index to Financial Statements

•The Hydrocarbon Value Chain.  We believe that our vertical integration enhances our margins and provides us competitive advantages. For example, we own and operate drilling rigs and well stimulation equipment and have invested in a water transportation project in West Virginia, which has provided up to $0.8 million in savings per well. These activities provide operational flexibility, lower our well costs, minimize the risk of unavailability of these resources from third parties and capture additional value over time.

•Technological Innovation. Our people constantly search for the next revolutionary technology and other operational advancements to capture greater value in unconventional hydrocarbon resource development. These developments – whether single, step-changing technologies or a combination of several incremental ones – can reduce finding and development costs and thus increase our margins.

•Environmental Solutions and Policy Formation.  We are a leader in identifying and implementing innovative solutions to unconventional hydrocarbon development to minimize the environmental and community impacts of our activities. We work extensively with governmental, non-governmental and industry stakeholders to develop responsible and cost-effective programs. We demonstrate that a company can operate responsibly and profitably, putting us in a better position to comply with new regulations as they evolve.

During 2019 we executed on these business strategies by:

•Shifting strategic focus to our liquids-rich portfolio in Southwest Appalachia to take advantage of more favorable commodity pricing;

•Lowering our costs through drilling, completions and operational efficiencies and optimizing gathering and transportation costs;

•Continuing to identify and implement structural, process and organizational changes to further reduce general and administrative costs;

•Improving our debt profile by opportunistically repurchasing debt at a discount and extending the maturity of our revolving credit facility to 2024;

•Maintaining a robust multi-year hedging program to ensure a certain level of cash flow;

•Focusing on delivering operational excellence with improved well productivity and economics from enhanced completion techniques, water infrastructure projects, optimization of surface equipment and managing reservoir drawdown; and

•Expanding our proved reserve quantities in Appalachia through our successful drilling program, lower cost structure and improved operational performance.

The bulk of our operations, which we refer to as “Exploration and Production” (“E&P”), are focused on the finding and development of natural gas, oil and NGL reserves. We are also focused on creating and capturing additional value through our marketing business, which we refer to as “Marketing” but previously referred to as “Midstream” when it included the operation of gathering systems.

On December 3, 2018, we completed the sale of 100% of the equity in certain of our subsidiaries that conducted our operations in Arkansas, which were primarily focused on the Fayetteville Shale (the “Fayetteville Shale sale”). We refer you to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in the Annual Report for additional discussion about the Fayetteville Shale sale.

Exploration and Production

Overview

Our primary business is the exploration for, and production of, natural gas, oil and NGLs, with our current operations solely within the United States. We are currently focused on the development of unconventional natural gas reservoirs located in Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Our operations in northeast Pennsylvania (herein referred to as “Northeast Appalachia”) are primarily focused on the unconventional natural gas reservoir known as the Marcellus Shale, and our operations in West Virginia and southwest Pennsylvania (herein referred to as “Southwest Appalachia”) are focused on the Marcellus Shale, the Utica and the Upper Devonian unconventional natural gas, oil and NGL reservoirs. Collectively, our properties located in Pennsylvania and West Virginia are herein referred to as “Appalachia.”

5
Index to Financial Statements

•Our E&P segment recorded operating income of $283 million in 2019, compared to $794 million in 2018. Operating income for the fiscal year 2018 included $105 million related to operations in the Fayetteville Shale, which was sold in December 2018. Excluding our 2018 operating income from the Fayetteville Shale, our E&P segment operating income decreased $406 million in 2019 from 2018 primarily due to a $285 million decrease in revenues and a $121 million increase in operating expenses. The decrease in revenues was primarily due to lower commodity prices, which were only partially offset by higher production. Operating expenses increased primarily due to increased gathering and processing fees resulting from a shift to liquids-rich production growth in Southwest Appalachia and increased depreciation, depletion and amortization. These results do not include the effects of our derivative program.

•Cash flow from operations from our E&P segment was $781 million in 2019, compared to $1.4 billion in 2018. Cash flow from operations for 2018 included $236 million related to our operations in the Fayetteville Shale. Excluding our cash flow from operations from the Fayetteville Shale, our cash flow from operations decreased $368 million in 2019 from 2018 primarily as a 10% decrease in weighted average commodity prices, including derivatives, and increased operating expenses associated with higher liquids activity more than offset an 11% increase in Appalachia production volumes.

Oilfield Services Vertical Integration

We provide certain oilfield services that are strategic and economically beneficial for our E&P operations when our E&P activity levels and market pricing support these activities. This vertical integration lowers our well costs, allows us to operate efficiently and helps us to mitigate certain operational and environmental risks. These services have included drilling, hydraulic fracturing and water management and movement.

As of December 31, 2019, we operated seven drilling rigs and two leased pressure pumping spreads with a total capacity of approximately 72,000 horsepower. These assets provide us greater flexibility to align our operational activities with commodity prices. In 2019, we provided drilling rigs for all of our 105 drilled wells. In addition, we provided hydraulic fracturing services utilizing one pressure pumping spread in Southwest Appalachia.

Our Proved Reserves

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6
Index to Financial Statements

Our reserve estimates and the after-tax PV-10 measure, or standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserve quantities, are highly dependent upon the respective commodity price used in our reserve and after-tax PV-10 calculations.

•Our reserves increased 7% in 2019, compared to 2018, primarily through extensions, discoveries and other additions, along with positive performance revisions.

•The decrease in our reserves in 2018, compared to 2017, was primarily due to the Fayetteville Shale sale. Excluding the impact of the Fayetteville Shale sale, our reserves increased 7% in 2018, compared to 2017, primarily through extensions, discoveries and other additions, along with increases in both price and performance revisions in Appalachia. 

•Our after-tax PV-10 value decreased in 2019 compared to 2018 as higher reserve levels and lower future development and production costs were more than offset by lower commodity prices.

•We are the designated operator of approximately 99% of our reserves, based on the pre-tax PV-10 value of our proved developed producing reserves, and our reserve life index was approximately 16.4 years at year-end 2019.

The difference in after-tax PV-10 and pre-tax PV-10 (a non-GAAP measure which is reconciled in the 2019 Proved Reserves by Category and Summary Operating Data table below) is the discounted value of future income taxes on the estimated cash flows. 

We believe that the pre-tax PV-10 value of the estimated cash flows related to our estimated proved reserves is a useful supplemental disclosure to the after-tax PV-10 value. Pre-tax PV-10 is based on prices, costs and discount factors that are comparable from company to company, while the after-tax PV-10 is dependent on the unique tax situation of each individual company. We understand that securities analysts use pre-tax PV-10 as one measure of the value of a company’s current proved reserves and to compare relative values among peer companies without regard to income taxes. We refer you to “Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures” in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report for a discussion of our standardized measure of discounted future cash flows related to our proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves, to the risk factor “Our proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves are estimates that include uncertainties. Any material change to these uncertainties or underlying assumptions could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated or understated” in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report, and to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements” in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report for a discussion of the risks inherent in utilization of standardized measures and estimated reserve data.

Lower natural gas, oil and NGL prices reduce the value of our assets, both by a direct reduction in what the production could be sold for and by making some properties uneconomic, resulting in decreases to the overall value of our reserves and potential non-cash impairment charges to earnings. Given the fall in commodity prices in 2019 and early 2020 and assuming that commodity prices remain at January 2020 levels for the rest of the first quarter of 2020, we expect a non-cash impairment to our natural gas and oil properties in the first quarter of 2020 ranging from approximately $400 million to $600 million, net of tax. Further non-cash impairments in future periods could occur if the trailing 12-month commodity prices decrease as compared to the average used in prior periods.

7
Index to Financial Statements

The following table provides an overall and categorical summary of our natural gas, oil and NGL reserves, as of year-end 2019 based on average year prices, and our well count, net acreage and PV-10 as of December 31, 2019, and sets forth 2019 annual information related to production and capital investments for each of our operating areas:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Other reserves and acreage consists primarily of properties in Colorado. 

(2)We have no reserves from synthetic gas, synthetic oil or nonrenewable natural resources intended to be upgraded into synthetic gas or oil. We used standard engineering and geoscience methods, or a combination of methodologies in determining estimates of material properties, including performance and test date analysis, offset statistical analogy of performance data, volumetric evaluation, including analysis of petrophysical parameters (including porosity, net pay, fluid saturations (i.e., water, oil and gas) and permeability) in combination with estimated reservoir parameters (including reservoir temperature and pressure, formation depth and formation volume factors), geological analysis, including structure and isopach maps and seismic analysis, including review of 2-D and 3-D data to ascertain faults, closure and other factors.

(3)Other capital investments includes $35 million related to our water infrastructure project, $22 million related to our E&P service companies and $6 million related to other developmental activities.

(4)Represents producing wells, including 516 wells in which we only have an overriding royalty interest in Northeast Appalachia, used in the December 31, 2019 reserves calculation.

(5)Excludes exploration licenses for 2,518,519 net acres in New Brunswick, Canada, which have been subject to a moratorium since 2015.

8
Index to Financial Statements

(6)Pre-tax PV-10 (a non-GAAP measure) is one measure of the value of a company’s proved reserves that we believe is used by securities analysts to compare relative values among peer companies without regard to income taxes. The reconciling difference in pre-tax PV-10 and the after-tax PV-10, or standardized measure, is the discounted value of future income taxes on the estimated cash flows from our proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves.

(7)Includes future asset retirement obligations outside of Appalachia.

(8)Based upon pre-tax PV-10 of proved developed producing activities.

Lease Expirations

The following table summarizes the leasehold acreage expiring over the next three years, assuming successful wells are not drilled to develop the acreage and leases are not extended:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)We have no reported proved undeveloped locations expiring in 2020.

(2)Of this acreage, 1,726 net acres in 2020, 2,173 net acres in 2021 and 6,907 net acres in 2022 can be extended for an average of 4.9 years.

(3)Exploration licenses were extended through 2021 but have been subject to a moratorium since 2015.

We refer you to “Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures” in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report for a more detailed discussion of our proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves as well as our standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related to our proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves. We also refer you to the risk factor “Our proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves are estimates that include uncertainties. Any material changes to these uncertainties or underlying assumptions could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated or understated” in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report and to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements” in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report for a discussion of the risks inherent in utilization of standardized measures and estimated reserve data.

9
Index to Financial Statements

Proved Undeveloped Reserves

Presented below is a summary of changes in our proved undeveloped reserves for 2017, 2018 and 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The Fayetteville Shale E&P assets and associated reserves were sold in December 2018.

(2)The 2017 proved undeveloped, or PUD, additions of 6,829 Bcfe were comprised of 3,910 Bcfe attributable to adding new undeveloped locations throughout the year through our successful drilling program and 2,919 Bcfe attributable to adding undeveloped locations associated with increased commodity pricing across our portfolio.

(3)Primarily due to changes associated with the analysis of updated data collected in the year and decreases related to current year production.

(4)Consists of reserves associated with planned wells that were PUD at the beginning of the year but were subsequently reclassified to unproved due to changes in the drilling plan, in accordance with the SEC five-year rule.

Performance, production and price revisions consist of revisions to reserves associated with wells having proved reserves in existence as of the beginning of the year. Extensions, discoveries and other additions include new reserves locations added in the current year. Certain planned wells that were proved undeveloped as of the beginning of the year have been rescheduled beyond five years. Accordingly, the proved undeveloped reserves associated with these planned wells have been removed as they now fall outside of the SEC mandated five-year development window. We expect these previous proved undeveloped reserves to be added back in future years.

•As of December 31, 2019, we had 6,300 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves, all of which we expect will be developed within five years of the initial disclosure as the starting reference date. During 2019, we invested $638 million in connection with converting 1,235 Bcfe, or 19%, of our proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2018 into proved developed reserves and added 1,004 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves. As a result of the commodity price environment in 2019, we had downward price revisions of 407 Bcfe. In addition, we also had 109 Bcfe that was reclassified to unproven. These reductions were more than offset by a 683 Bcfe increase due to performance and production revisions.

•As of December 31, 2018, we had 6,364 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves. During 2018, we invested $491 million in connection with converting 1,096 Bcfe, or 16%, of our proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2017 into proved developed reserves and added 832 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserve additions in Appalachia. Proved undeveloped reserves also decreased in 2018 primarily due to the sale of the Fayetteville Shale E&P assets.

10
Index to Financial Statements

•As of December 31, 2017, we had 6,855 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves. During 2017, we invested $23 million in connection with converting 46 Bcfe, or 60%, of our proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2016 into proved developed reserves and added 6,829 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserve additions in Appalachia. The significant increase in our proved undeveloped reserve additions in 2017 was the result of adding new undeveloped locations throughout the year through our successful drilling program, improved operational performance and increased commodity pricing across our portfolio. 

Our December 31, 2019 proved reserves included 929 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves from 90 locations that have a positive present value on an undiscounted basis in compliance with proved reserve requirements but do not have a positive present value when discounted at 10%. These properties have a negative present value of $50 million when discounted at 10%. We have made a final investment decision and are committed to developing these reserves within five years from the date of initial booking.

We expect that the development costs for our proved undeveloped reserves of 6,300 Bcfe as of December 31, 2019 will require us to invest an additional $3.0 billion for those reserves to be brought to production. Our ability to make the necessary investments to generate these cash inflows is subject to factors that may be beyond our control. The current commodity price environment has resulted, and could continue to result, in certain reserves no longer being economic to produce, leading to both lower proved reserves and cash flows. We refer you to the risk factors “Natural gas, oil and NGL prices greatly affect our revenues and thus profits, liquidity, growth, ability to repay our debt and the value of our assets” and “Significant capital investment is required to replace our reserves and conduct our business” in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report and to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements” in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report for a more detailed discussion of these factors and other risks.

Our Reserve Replacement

The reserve replacement ratio measures the success of an E&P company in adding new reserves to replace the reserves that are being depleted by its current production volumes. The reserve replacement ratio, which we discuss below, is an important analytical measure used by investors and peers in the E&P industry to evaluate performance results and long-term prospects. There are limitations as to the usefulness of this measure, as it does not reflect the type of reserves or the cost of adding the reserves or indicate the potential value of the reserve additions. 

In 2019, we replaced 203% of our production volumes with 1,195 Bcfe of proved reserve additions and net upward revisions of 385 Bcfe, all of which were from Appalachia. The following table summarizes the changes in our proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves for the year ended December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Other includes properties outside of Appalachia.

Our ability to add reserves depends upon many factors that are beyond our control. We refer you to the risk factors “Significant capital investment is required to replace our reserves and conduct our business” and “If we are not able to replace reserves, we may not be able to grow or sustain production.” in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report and to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements” in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report for a more detailed discussion of these factors and other risks.

11
Index to Financial Statements

Our Operations

Northeast Appalachia

Northeast Appalachia represented 59% of our total 2019 net production and 38% of our total reserves as of December 31, 2019. In 2019, our reserves in Northeast Appalachia increased by 471 Bcf, which included net additions of 862 Bcf and net upward performance revisions of 127 Bcf, partially offset by net downward price revisions of 57 Bcf, disposition of reserves in place of 2 Bcf and production of 459 Bcf. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 173,994 net acres in Northeast Appalachia and had spud or acquired 727 operated wells, 641 of which were on production. Below is a summary of Northeast Appalachia’s operating results for the latest three years: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Our undeveloped acreage position as of December 31, 2019 had an average royalty interest of 15%.

(2)Includes 516 proved developed producing and 3 proved developed non-producing wells in which we have only an overriding royalty interest.

For 2019 as compared to 2018:

•Our average completed well cost per foot decreased primarily due to increased lateral lengths, operational execution and savings from vertical integration and direct-sourcing sand.

Our ability to bring our Northeast Appalachia production to market depends on a number of factors including the construction of and/or the availability of capacity on gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own. We refer you to “Marketing” in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report for a discussion of our gathering and transportation arrangements for Northeast Appalachia production.

12
Index to Financial Statements

Southwest Appalachia

Southwest Appalachia represented 41% of our total 2019 net production and 62% of our total reserves as of December 31, 2019. In 2019, our reserves in Southwest Appalachia increased by 329 Bcfe, which included net additions of 333 Bcfe and net upward performance revisions of 975 Bcfe, partially offset by net downward price revisions of 660 Bcfe and production of 319 Bcfe. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 287,693 net acres in Southwest Appalachia and had a total of 505 wells on production that we operated. Below is a summary of Southwest Appalachia’s operating results for the latest three years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Our undeveloped acreage position as of December 31, 2019 had an average royalty interest of 14%.

(2)Approximately 317 Bcfe, 240 Bcfe and 179 Bcfe for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were produced from the Marcellus Shale formation.

(3)Excludes $35 million, $60 million and $37 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, related to our water infrastructure project.

(4)2018 and 2017 include only wells drilled by the Company.

(5)Average completed well cost and average lateral length for the year ended December 31, 2019 include both Marcellus wells and Upper Devonian wells. The years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 include Marcellus wells only and exclude three Upper Devonian wells in 2018 and one Utica well in 2017. 

For 2019 as compared to 2018:

•Our average completed well cost per foot decreased primarily due to increased lateral lengths, operational execution and savings from vertical integration, water systems and direct-sourcing sand.

13
Index to Financial Statements

Our ability to bring our Southwest Appalachia production to market will depend on a number of factors including the construction of and/or the availability of capacity on gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own. We refer you to “Marketing” within Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report for a discussion of our gathering and transportation arrangements for Southwest Appalachia production.

Fayetteville Shale

On August 30, 2018, we entered into an agreement to effect the Fayetteville Shale sale for $1,865 million, subject to customary adjustments. In early December 2018, we completed the Fayetteville Shale sale, resulting in net proceeds of $1,650 million, following adjustments due primarily to the net cash flows from the economic effective date of July 1, 2018, to the closing date.

Production in the Fayetteville Shale totaled 243 Bcf for the year ended December 31, 2018, which represented 26% of our total 2018 net production. In 2018, we invested $33 million in the Fayetteville Shale.

Other

Excluding 2,518,519 acres in New Brunswick, Canada, which have been subject to a government-imposed drilling moratorium since 2015, we held 27,334 net undeveloped acres for the potential development of new resources as of December 31, 2019 in areas outside of Appalachia. This compares to 153,159 net undeveloped acres held at year-end 2018 and 369,236 net undeveloped acres held at year-end 2017, excluding the New Brunswick acreage.

We limited our activities in areas beyond our assets in Appalachia during 2019, 2018 and 2017 as a result of the commodity price environment as we focused our capital allocation on these more economically competitive plays. There can be no assurance that any prospects outside of our development plays will result in viable projects or that we will not abandon our initial investments. 

New Brunswick, Canada. We currently hold exclusive licenses to search and conduct an exploration program covering 2,518,519 net acres in New Brunswick. In 2015, the provincial government in New Brunswick imposed a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing until it is satisfied with a list of conditions. In response to this moratorium, the Company requested and was granted an extension of its licenses to March 2021. In May 2016, the provincial government announced that the moratorium would continue indefinitely. Unless and until the moratorium is lifted, we will not be able to develop these assets. Given this development, we fully impaired our investment in New Brunswick in 2016.

Acquisitions and Divestitures

On August 30, 2018, we entered into an agreement to effect the Fayetteville Shale sale for $1,865 million, subject to customary adjustments. In early December 2018, we completed the Fayetteville Shale sale, receiving $1,650 million in net proceeds after adjustments to the purchase price of $215 million primarily due to the net cash flows from the economic effective date of July 1, 2018 to the closing date.

During 2019, we sold non-core acreage for $38 million. There was no production or proved reserves associated with this acreage.

14
Index to Financial Statements

Capital Investments

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The Fayetteville Shale E&P assets and associated reserves were divested in December 2018.

(2)Includes $35 million, $60 million and $37 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 related to our water infrastructure project.

•The decreases in 2019 and 2018 E&P capital investing, as compared to their respective prior years, resulted from our commitment to invest within our cash flows from operations, which are heavily dependent on commodity prices, supplemented by the remaining proceeds from the Fayetteville Shale sale.

•In 2019, we drilled 105 wells (93 of which were spud in 2019), completed 116 wells, placed 113 wells to sales and had 52 wells in progress at year-end. 

•Of the 52 wells in progress at year-end, 28 and 24 were located in Northeast Appalachia and Southwest Appalachia, respectively.

We refer you to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Investing” within Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report for additional discussion of the factors that could impact our planned capital investments in 2020.

Sales, Delivery Commitments and Customers

Sales. The following tables present historical information about our production volumes for natural gas, oil and NGLs and our average realized natural gas, oil and NGL sales prices:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Production volumes for the year ended December 31, 2018 included 243 Bcf of production related to our operations in the Fayetteville Shale which was sold in December 2018. Excluding this amount, production volumes increased 75 Bcfe for the year ended December 31, 2019 due to the increase in production from Southwest Appalachia.

•The increase in production in 2018 resulted primarily from a 64 Bcf increase in net production from our Northeast Appalachia properties and a 60 Bcfe increase in net production from our Southwest Appalachia properties, partially offset by a 73 Bcf decrease in net production from our Fayetteville Shale properties, which were divested in December 2018.

15
Index to Financial Statements

Average Realized Prices

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Based on last day settlement prices from monthly futures contracts.

(2)This discount includes a basis differential, a heating content adjustment, physical basis sales, third-party transportation charges and fuel charges, and excludes financial basis hedges.

Sales of natural gas, oil and NGL production are conducted under contracts that reflect current prices and are subject to seasonal price swings. We are unable to predict changes in the market demand and price for these commodities, including changes that may be induced by the effects of weather on demand for our production. We regularly enter into various derivative and other financial arrangements with respect to a portion of our projected production to support certain desired levels of cash flow and to minimize the impact of price fluctuations. We limit derivative agreements to counterparties with appropriate credit standings, and our policies prohibit speculation.

As of December 31, 2019, we had the following commodity price derivatives in place on our targeted future production:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of February 25, 2020, we had the following commodity price derivatives in place on our targeted 2020 and future production:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

16
Index to Financial Statements

We intend to use derivatives to limit the impact of price volatility on a large portion of expected future production volumes to ensure certain desired levels of cash flow. We refer you to Item 7A of Part II of this Annual Report, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” for further information regarding our derivatives and risk management as of December 31, 2019.

During 2019, the average price we received for our natural gas production, excluding the impact of derivatives and including the cost of transportation, was approximately $0.65 per Mcf lower than average New York Mercantile Exchange, or NYMEX, prices. Differences between NYMEX and price realized (basis differentials) are due primarily to locational differences and transportation cost. 

As of December 31, 2019, we have entered into physical sales arrangements to limit the impact of basis volatility on approximately 165 Bcf and 50 Bcf of our 2020 and 2021 expected natural gas production, respectively, at a basis differential to NYMEX natural gas price of approximately ($0.04) per MMBtu and ($0.28) per MMBtu for 2020 and 2021, respectively.

We have also entered into financial basis swaps for approximately 198 Bcf, 86 Bcf and 45 Bcf of our 2020, 2021 and 2022 expected natural gas production, respectively, at a basis differential to NYMEX natural gas price of approximately ($0.31) per MMBtu, $0.04 per MMBtu and ($0.50) per MMBtu for 2020, 2021 and 2022, respectively, as of December 31, 2019.

We refer you to Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional discussion about our derivatives and risk management activities.

Delivery Commitments. As of December 31, 2019, we had natural gas delivery commitments of 315 Bcf in 2020 and 83 Bcf in 2021 under existing agreements. These amounts are well below our expected 2020 natural gas production from Northeast Appalachia and Southwest Appalachia and expected 2021 production from our available reserves, which are not subject to any priorities or curtailments that may affect quantities delivered to our customers or any priority allocations or price limitations imposed by federal or state regulatory agencies, or any other factors beyond our control that may affect our ability to meet our delivery commitments other than those discussed in Item 1A “Risk Factors” of Part I of this Annual Report. We expect to be able to fulfill all of our short-term and long-term delivery commitments to provide natural gas from our own production of available reserves; however, if we are unable to do so, we may have to purchase natural gas at market to fulfill our obligations.

Customers. Our E&P production is marketed primarily by our Marketing segment. Our customers include major energy companies, utilities and industrial purchasers of natural gas. During the year ended December 31, 2019, no single third-party purchaser accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, two subsidiaries of Royal Dutch Shell Plc in aggregate accounted for approximately 10.4% and 10.3%, respectively, of total natural gas, oil and NGL sales. We believe that the loss of any one customer would not have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our natural gas, oil and NGL production.

Competition

All phases of the natural gas and oil industry are highly competitive. We compete in the acquisition and disposition of properties, the search for and development of reserves, the production and marketing of natural gas, oil and NGLs, and the securing of labor, services and equipment required to conduct our operations. Our competitors include major oil and natural gas companies, other independent oil and natural gas companies and individual producers. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources that substantially exceed those available to us. Consequently, we will encounter competition that may affect both the price we receive and contract terms we must offer. We also face competition in accessing pipeline and other services to transport our product to market. Likewise, there are substitutes for the commodities we produce, such as other fuels for power generation, heating and transportation, and those markets in effect compete with us.

We cannot predict whether and to what extent any regulatory changes initiated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or the FERC, or any other new energy legislation or regulations will achieve the goal of increasing competition, lessening preferential treatment and enhancing transparency in markets in which our natural gas production is sold. Similarly, we cannot predict whether legal constraints that have hindered the development of new transportation infrastructure, particularly in the northeastern United States, will continue. However, we do not believe that we will be disproportionately affected as compared to other natural gas and oil producers and marketers by any action taken by the FERC or any other legislative or regulatory body or the status of the development of transportation facilities.

Regulation

Producing natural gas, oil and NGL resources and transporting and selling production historically have been heavily regulated. For example, state governments regulate the location of wells and establish the minimum size for spacing units. Permits typically are required before drilling. State and local government zoning and land use regulations may also limit the locations for drilling and production. Similar regulations can also affect the location, construction and operation of gathering 

17
Index to Financial Statements

and other pipelines needed to transport production to market. In addition, various suppliers of goods and services may require licensing.

Currently in the United States, the price at which natural gas, oil or NGLs may be sold is not regulated. Congress has imposed price regulation from time to time, and there can be no assurance that the current, less stringent regulatory approach will continue. In 2015, the federal government repealed a 40-year ban on the export of crude oil. The export of natural gas continues to require federal permits. Broader freedom to export could lead to higher prices. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) and the rules that the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, (the “CFTC”), the SEC, and certain other regulators have issued thereunder regulate certain swaps, futures and options contracts in the major energy markets, including for natural gas, oil and NGLs

Producing and transporting natural gas, oil and NGLs is also subject to extensive environmental regulation. We refer you to “Other – Environmental Regulation” in Item 1 of Part 1 of this Annual Report and the risk factor “We, our service providers and our customers are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities” in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report for a discussion of the impact of environmental regulation on our business.

Marketing

We engage in marketing and, prior to the Fayetteville Shale sale, natural gas gathering activities which primarily support our E&P operations. We generate revenue through the marketing of natural gas, oil and NGLs and, historically, from gathering fees associated with in-field gathering activities. The Fayetteville Shale sale, which closed in December 2018, included all midstream gathering assets associated with our previous operations in Arkansas, which comprised the vast majority of our midstream gathering business. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2018 included a $7 million loss related to our gathering operations in the Fayetteville Shale, which we sold in December 2018. Excluding this amount, operating income decreased $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to 2018, primarily due to $26 million decrease in marketing margin. 

•Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2018 included $155 million of non-cash impairments, primarily related to our midstream gathering assets divested as part of the Fayetteville Shale sale along with certain other non-core gathering assets, and $2 million of restructuring charges. Excluding these charges, operating income from our Marketing segment decreased $22 million in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to an $83 million decrease in gas gathering revenues and a $1 million decrease in marketing margin, partially offset by a $33 million decrease in operating costs and expenses and a $29 million increase in gain on sale of assets, net.

18
Index to Financial Statements

•Marketing revenues decreased in 2019, compared to 2018, primarily due to a decrease in the price received for volumes marketed and a decrease in volumes marketed. We had no significant gathering revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 as a result of the sale of our midstream gathering operations in the Fayetteville Shale in December 2018.

•Revenues increased in 2018, compared to 2017, primarily due to an increase in the price received for volumes marketed which was partially offset by a decrease in volumes gathered. 

•Cash flow from operations generated by our Marketing segment increased in 2019, compared to 2018, as an $895 million decrease in operating revenues, partially offset by a $726 million decrease in cash operating costs and expenses, was more than offset by a $226 million increase primarily related to timing differences of payables and receivables between the respective periods.

•The decrease in cash flow from operations in 2018, compared to 2017, was primarily due to an $83 million decrease in gas gathering revenues, partially offset by a $12 million decrease in cash operating costs and expenses, a $64 million decrease related to timing differences of payables and receivables between the respective periods and a $3 million decrease in Other Income (Loss), Net.

Gas Gathering

In December 2018, we sold our midstream gathering operations in Arkansas as part of the Fayetteville Shale sale. Our remaining interests in gathering systems are not expected to generate material revenues.

Marketing

We attempt to capture opportunities related to the marketing and transportation of natural gas, oil and NGLs primarily involving the marketing of our own equity production and that of royalty owners in our wells. Additionally, we manage portfolio and locational, or basis, risk, acquire transportation rights on third-party pipelines and, in limited circumstances, purchase third-party natural gas to fulfill commitments specific to a geographic location.

Northeast Appalachia. Our transportation portfolio in Northeast Appalachia is highly diversified and allows us to access premium city-gate markets as well as to deliver natural gas from the Appalachian basin area to the southeast United States. The capacity agreements contain multiple extension and reduction options that allow us to right-size our transportation portfolio as needed for our production or to capture future market opportunities. The table below details our firm transportation, firm sales and total takeaway capacity over the next three years as of February 25, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Southwest Appalachia. Our transportation portfolio for all products in Southwest Appalachia allows us to capitalize on strengthening markets and provides a path for production growth. Agreements with ET Rover Pipeline LLC and Columbia Pipeline Group, Inc.’s Mountaineer Xpress and Gulf Xpress pipelines allow us to access high-demand markets along the Gulf Coast while also capturing materially improving in-basin pricing. In addition to our natural gas transportation, we have ethane take-away capacity that provides direct access to Mont Belvieu pricing. The table below details our natural gas firm transportation, firm sales and total takeaway capacity over the next three years as of February 25, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Demand Charges

As of December 31, 2019, our obligations for demand and similar charges under the firm transportation agreements and gathering agreements totaled approximately $8.5 billion, $1.1 billion of which related to access capacity on future pipeline and gathering infrastructure projects that still require the granting of regulatory approvals and additional construction efforts. We also have guarantee obligations of up to $293 million of that amount. In February 2020, we were notified that the proposed Constitution pipeline project was cancelled and that we were released from a firm transportation agreement with its sponsor. As of December 31, 2019, we had contractual commitments totaling $512 million over the next seventeen years related to the 

19
Index to Financial Statements

Constitution pipeline project that are reflected in the $8.5 billion of firm transportation obligations discussed above that were pending regulatory approval and/or construction.

As part of the Fayetteville Shale sale, we retained certain contractual commitments related to firm transportation, with the buyer obligated to pay the transportation provider directly for these charges. As of December 31, 2019, approximately $108 million of these contractual commitments remain of which we will reimburse the buyer for certain of these potential obligations up to approximately $58 million through 2020 depending on the buyer’s actual use. We have recorded a $46 million liability, which is the present value of the estimated future payments. The buyer has also assumed future asset retirement obligations related to the operations sold.

In the first quarter of 2019, we agreed to purchase firm transportation with pipelines in Appalachia starting in 2021 and running through 2032 totaling $357 million in total contractual commitments, of which the seller has agreed to reimburse us for $133 million.

We refer you to Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for further details on our demand charges and the risk factor “We have made significant investments in oilfield services businesses, including our drilling rigs, water infrastructure and pressure pumping equipment, to lower costs and secure inputs for our operations and transportation for our production. If our development and production activities are curtailed or disrupted, we may not recover our investment in these activities, which could adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, our continued expansion of these operations may adversely impact our relationships with third-party providers” in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report.

Competition

Our marketing activities compete with numerous other companies offering the same services, many of which possess larger financial and other resources than we have. Some of these competitors are other producers and affiliates of companies with extensive pipeline systems that are used for transportation from producers to end users. Other factors affecting competition are the cost and availability of alternative fuels, the level of consumer demand and the cost of and proximity to pipelines and other transportation facilities. We believe that our ability to compete effectively within the marketing segment in the future depends upon establishing and maintaining strong relationships with customers.

Customers

Our marketing customers include major energy companies, utilities and industrial purchasers of natural gas. During the year ended December 31, 2019, no single third-party purchaser accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, two subsidiaries of Royal Dutch Shell Plc in aggregate accounted for approximately 10.4% and 10.3%, respectively, of total natural gas, oil and NGL sales. We believe that the loss of any one customer would not have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our natural gas, oil and NGL production.

Regulation

The transportation of natural gas, oil and NGLs is heavily regulated. Interstate pipelines must obtain authorization from the FERC to operate in interstate commerce, and state governments typically must authorize the construction of pipelines for intrastate service. The FERC currently allows interstate pipelines to adopt market-based rates; however, in the past the FERC has regulated pipeline tariffs and could do so again in the future. State tariff regulations vary. Currently, all pipelines we own are intrastate and immaterial to our operations.

State and local permitting, zoning and land use regulations can affect the location, construction and operation of gathering and other pipelines needed to transport production to market, and the lack of new pipeline capacity can limit our ability to reach relevant markets for the sale of the commodities we produce.

The transportation of natural gas and oil is also subject to extensive environmental regulation. We refer you to “Other – Environmental Regulation” in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report and the risk factor “We, our service providers and our customers are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities” in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report for a discussion of the impact of environmental regulation on our business.

Other

We currently have no significant business activity outside of our E&P and Marketing segments.

20
Index to Financial Statements

Environmental Regulation

General. Our operations are subject to environmental regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations require permits for drilling wells and the maintenance of bonding requirements to drill or operate wells, and also regulate the spacing and location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, the plugging and abandoning of wells and the prevention and cleanup of pollutants and other matters. We maintain insurance for clean-up costs in limited instances arising out of sudden and accidental events, but otherwise we may not be fully insured against all such risks. Although future environmental obligations are not expected to have a material impact on the results of our operations or financial condition, there can be no assurance that future developments, such as increasingly stringent environmental laws or enforcement thereof, will not cause us to incur material environmental liabilities or costs.

Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal fines and penalties and the imposition of injunctive relief. Certain laws and legal principles can make us liable for environmental damage to properties we previously owned, and although we generally require purchasers to assume that liability, there is no assurance that they will have sufficient funds should a liability arise. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes may result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements. We do not expect continued compliance with existing requirements to have a material adverse impact on us, but there can be no assurance that this will continue in the future. We refer you to “Other – Environmental Regulation” in Item 1 of Part 1 of this Annual Report and the risk factor “We, our service providers and our customers are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities” in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report for a discussion of the impact of environmental regulation on our business.

The following is a summary of the more significant existing environmental and worker health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject.

Generation and Disposal of Wastes.  The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended, also known as CERCLA or the “Superfund law,” imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons that are considered to be responsible for the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. These persons include the current or former owner or operator of a site where the release occurred, as well as persons that transported or disposed, or arranged for the transportation or disposal of, the hazardous substances found at the site. Persons who are or were responsible for releases of hazardous substances under CERCLA may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources, and it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. 

The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, or RCRA, generally does not regulate wastes generated by the exploration and production of natural gas and oil. RCRA specifically excludes from the definition of hazardous waste “drilling fluids, produced waters and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of oil, natural gas or geothermal energy.” However, legislative and regulatory initiatives have been considered from time to time that would reclassify certain natural gas and oil exploration and production wastes as “hazardous wastes,” which would make the reclassified wastes subject to much more stringent handling, disposal and clean-up requirements. If such measures were to be enacted, it could have a significant impact on our operating costs. Moreover, ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes and waste oils, may be regulated as hazardous waste.

The Clean Water Act, as amended, or CWA, and analogous state laws, impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of produced waters and other natural gas and oil waste into regulated waters. Permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants to regulated waters and to conduct construction activities in waters and wetlands. The CWA and similar state laws provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for any unauthorized discharges of pollutants and unauthorized discharges of reportable quantities of oil and other hazardous substances. The EPA has adopted regulations requiring certain natural gas and oil exploration and production facilities to obtain permits for storm water discharges. Costs may be associated with the treatment of wastewater or developing and implementing storm water pollution prevention plans.

The Oil Pollution Act, as amended, or OPA, and regulations promulgated thereunder impose a variety of requirements on “responsible parties” related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from such spills into regulated waters. A “responsible party” includes the owner or operator of an onshore facility, pipeline or vessel, or the lessee or permittee of the area in which an offshore facility is located. OPA assigns liability to each responsible party for oil cleanup costs and a variety of public and private damages. Although liability limits apply in some circumstances, a party cannot take advantage of liability limits if the spill was caused by gross negligence or willful misconduct or resulted from violation of a federal safety, 

21
Index to Financial Statements

construction or operating regulation. If the party fails to report a spill or to cooperate fully in the cleanup, liability limits likewise do not apply. Few defenses exist to the liability imposed by OPA. OPA imposes ongoing requirements on a responsible party, including the preparation of oil spill response plans and proof of financial responsibility to cover environmental cleanup and restoration costs that could be incurred in connection with an oil spill. Although oil accounted for only 4% of our total production in 2019 and 2% in 2018 and 2017, we expect this percentage to increase as we continue to develop our Southwest Appalachia assets.

We own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, onshore properties that for many years have been used for or associated with the exploration for and production of natural gas and oil. Although we have utilized operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by us and/or on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of wastes was not under our control. Under CERCLA, the CWA, RCRA and analogous state laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes (including waste disposed of or released by prior owners or operators) or property contamination (including groundwater contamination by prior owners or operators), or to perform remedial plugging or closure operations to prevent future contamination.

Air Emissions. The Clean Air Act, as amended, restricts emissions into the atmosphere. Various activities in our operations, such as drilling, pumping and the use of vehicles, can release matter subject to regulation. We must obtain permits, typically from local authorities, to conduct various activities. Federal and state governmental agencies are looking into the issues associated with methane and other emissions from oil and natural gas activities, and further regulation could increase our costs or restrict our ability to produce. Although methane emissions are not currently regulated at the federal level, we are required to report emissions of various greenhouse gases, including methane.

Threatened and Endangered Species. The Endangered Species Act and comparable state laws protect species threatened with possible extinction. Protection of threatened and endangered species may have the effect of prohibiting or delaying us from obtaining drilling and other permits and may include restrictions on road building and other activities in areas containing the affected species or their habitats. Based on the species that have been identified to date, we do not believe there are any species protected under the Endangered Species Act that would materially and adversely affect our operations at this time.

Hydraulic Fracturing. We utilize hydraulic fracturing in drilling wells as a means of maximizing their productivity. It is an essential and common practice in the oil and gas industry used to stimulate the production of oil, natural gas, and associated liquids from dense and deep rock formations. Hydraulic fracturing involves using water, sand, and certain chemicals to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow the flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore.

In the past several years, there has been an increased focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practice, both in the United States and abroad. In the United States, hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but federal agencies have started to assert regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, issued final rules effective as of October 15, 2012 that subject oil and gas operations (production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution) to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards, or NSPS, and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, or NESHAPS programs. In May 2016, the EPA finalized additional regulations to control methane and volatile organic compound (“VOC”) emissions from certain oil and gas equipment and operations. In September 2018, the EPA issued proposed revisions to those regulations, which, if finalized, would reduce certain obligations thereunder. Later, in August 2019, the EPA proposed two options for rescinding the regulations. Under the EPA’s preferred alternative, the agency would rescind the methane limits for new, reconstructed and modified oil and natural gas production sources while leaving in place the general emission limits for VOCs, and relieve the EPA of its obligation to develop guidelines for methane emissions from existing sources. In addition, the proposal would remove from the oil and natural gas category the natural gas transmission and storage segment. The other proposed alternative would rescind the methane requirements of the NSPS applicable to all oil and natural gas sources, without removing any sources from that source category (and still requiring control of VOCs in general). The EPA also finalized pretreatment standards that would prohibit the indirect discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly owned treatment works. Based on our current operations and practices, management believes such newly promulgated rules will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows but these matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view may change in the future.

In addition, there are certain governmental reviews either underway or proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. A number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. For example, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report regarding the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that “water cycle” activities 

22
Index to Financial Statements

associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain circumstances such as water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability, surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water, injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity, injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources, discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. The results of these studies could lead federal and state governments and agencies to develop and implement additional regulations.

Although the current federal administration has relaxed many regulations adopted in the latter part of the prior administration, some states in which we operate have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, waste disposal and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. In the event state, local, or municipal legal restrictions are adopted in areas where we are currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct operations, we may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling and/or completion of wells.

Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process has led to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil, natural gas, and associated liquids including from the development of shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of additional federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells, increased compliance costs and time, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, various officials and candidates at the federal, state and local levels, including some presidential candidates, have proposed banning hydraulic fracturing altogether. We refer you to the risk factor “We, our service providers and our customers are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities” in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report.

In addition, concerns have been raised about the potential for seismic activity to occur from the use of underground injection control wells, a predominant method for disposing of waste water from oil and gas activities. New rules and regulations may be developed to address these concerns, possibly limiting or eliminating the ability to use disposal wells in certain locations and increasing the cost of disposal in others. We utilize third parties to dispose of waste water associated with our operations. These third parties may operate injection wells and may be subject to regulatory restrictions relating to seismicity. 

Greenhouse Gas Emissions. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to human health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act that, among other things, establish Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or PSD, construction and Title V operating permit reviews for certain large stationary sources. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their greenhouse gas emissions also will be required to meet “best available control technology” standards that will be established on a case-by case basis. One of our subsidiaries operates compressor stations, which are facilities that are required to adhere to the PSD or Title V permit requirements. EPA rulemakings related to greenhouse gas emissions could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources.

The EPA also has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified onshore and offshore oil and gas production sources in the United States on an annual basis, which include certain of our operations. Although Congress from time to time has considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of states, including states in which we operate, have enacted or passed measures to track and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and regional greenhouse gas cap-and-trade programs. Most of these cap-and-trade programs require major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal is achieved. These reductions may cause the cost of allowances to escalate significantly over time.

The adoption and implementation of regulations that require reporting of greenhouse gases or otherwise limit emissions of greenhouse gases from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to monitor and report on greenhouse gas emissions or install new equipment to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations. In addition, these regulatory initiatives could drive down demand for our products by stimulating demand for alternative forms of energy that do not 

23
Index to Financial Statements

rely on combustion of fossil fuels that serve as a major source of greenhouse gas emissions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. At the same time, new laws and regulations are prompting power producers to shift from coal to natural gas, which is increasing demand.

Further, in December 2015, over 190 countries, including the United States, reached an agreement to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions (the “Paris Agreement”). The Paris Agreement entered into effect in November 2016 after more than 70 nations, including the United States, ratified or otherwise indicated their intent to be bound by the agreement. In June 2017, President Trump announced that the United States intends to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations either to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or a separate agreement. In August 2017, the U.S. Department of State officially informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, and in November 2019 the United States initiated the year-long process of formally withdrawing, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States’ adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may re-enter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time. To the extent that the United States and other countries implement this agreement or impose other climate change regulations on the oil and gas industry, it could have an adverse effect on our business.

Employee Health and Safety. Our operations are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, or OSHA, and comparable state statutes, whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of the federal Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act and comparable state statutes require that information be maintained concerning hazardous materials used or produced in operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens.

Canada. Our activities in Canada have, to date, been limited to certain geological and geophysical activities and now are subject to a moratorium. If and when the moratorium ends and should we begin drilling and development activities in New Brunswick, we will be subject to federal, provincial and local environmental regulations.

Employees

As of December 31, 2019, we had 923 total employees, a decrease of 4% compared to year-end 2018. None of our employees were covered by a collective bargaining agreement at year-end 2019. We believe that our relationships with our employees are good. In February 2020, we notified employees of a workforce reduction plan as a result of a strategic realignment of our organizational structure. This reduction will be substantially complete by the end of the first quarter of 2020. Affected employees were offered a severance package, which included a one-time payment depending on length of service and, if applicable, the current value of a portion of unvested long-term incentive awards that were forfeited.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table shows certain information as of February 25, 2020 about our executive officers, as defined in Rule 3b-7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mr. Way was appointed Chief Executive Officer in January 2016. Prior to that, he served as Chief Operating Officer since 2011, having also been appointed President in December 2014. Prior to joining the Company, he was Senior Vice President, Americas of BG Group plc with responsibility for E&P, Midstream and LNG operations in the United States, Trinidad and Tobago, Chile, Bolivia, Canada and Argentina since 2007.

Mr. Bott was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in February 2018. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of SandRidge Energy, Inc. since 2015.

Mr. Carrell was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in December 2017. Prior to joining the Company, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of EP Energy since 2012.

24
Index to Financial Statements

Mr. Cecil was appointed Executive Vice President Corporate Development in August 2017. Prior to joining the Company, he was Managing Director and Head of the North American E&P group of Lazard since 2012.

Ms. McCauley was appointed Senior Vice President – Administration in April 2016. Prior to that, she served as Senior Vice President – Human Resources since 2009.

Mr. Ale was appointed Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in November 2013. Prior to that, he was Vice President and General Counsel of Occidental Petroleum Corporation since April 2012. Prior to that, he was a partner with Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP since 2002.

Mr. Kurtz was appointed Vice President of Marketing and Transportation in May 2011. Prior to that, he served in various marketing roles since joining the Company in May 1997.

There are no family relationships between any of the Company’s directors or executive officers.

GLOSSARY OF CERTAIN INDUSTRY TERMS

The definitions set forth below include indicated terms in this Annual Report. All natural gas reserves reported in this Annual Report are stated at the legal pressure base of the state or area where the reserves exist and at 60 degrees Fahrenheit. All currency amounts are in U.S. dollars unless specified otherwise.

“Acquisition of properties” Costs incurred to purchase, lease or otherwise acquire a property, including costs of lease bonuses and options to purchase or lease properties, the portion of costs applicable to minerals when land including mineral rights is purchased in fee, brokers’ fees, recording fees, legal costs, and other costs incurred in acquiring properties. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a) (1) of Regulation S-X, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Available reserves” Estimates of the amounts of natural gas, oil and NGLs which the registrant can produce from current proved developed reserves using presently installed equipment under existing economic and operating conditions and an estimate of amounts that others can deliver to the registrant under long-term contracts or agreements on a per-day, per-month, or per-year basis. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Item 1207(d) of Regulation S-K, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Basis differential” The difference in price for a commodity between a market index price and the price at a specified location.

“Bbl” One stock tank barrel, or 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used in reference to oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.

“Bcf” One billion cubic feet of natural gas.

“Bcfe” One billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent. Determined using the ratio of one barrel of oil or natural gas liquids to six Mcf of natural gas.

“Btu” One British thermal unit, which is the heat required to raise the temperature of a one-pound mass of water from 58.5 to 59.5 degrees Fahrenheit.

“Deterministic estimate” The method of estimating reserves or resources is called deterministic when a single value for each parameter (from the geoscience, engineering, or economic data) in the reserves calculation is used in the reserves estimation procedure. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a) (5) of Regulation S-X, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Developed oil and gas reserves” Developed oil and natural gas reserves are reserves of any category that can be expected to be recovered:

(i)Through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well; and

(ii)Through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well.

For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a) (6) of Regulation S-X, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Development costs” Costs incurred to obtain access to proved reserves and to provide facilities for extracting, treating, gathering and storing natural gas, oil and NGLs. More specifically, development costs, including depreciation and applicable operating costs of support equipment and facilities and other costs of development activities, are costs incurred to:

25
Index to Financial Statements

(i)Gain access to and prepare well locations for drilling, including surveying well locations for the purpose of determining specific development drilling sites, clearing ground, draining, road building, and relocating public roads, gas lines, and power lines, to the extent necessary in developing the proved reserves.

(ii)Drill and equip development wells, development-type stratigraphic test wells, and service wells, including the costs of platforms and of well equipment such as casing, tubing, pumping equipment, and the wellhead assembly.

(iii)Acquire, construct, and install production facilities such as lease flow lines, separators, treaters, heaters, manifolds, measuring devices, and production storage tanks, natural gas cycling and processing plants, and central utility and waste disposal systems.

(iv)Provide improved recovery systems.

For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a) (7) of Regulation S-X, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Development project” A development project is the means by which petroleum resources are brought to the status of economically producible. As examples, the development of a single reservoir or field, an incremental development in a producing field, or the integrated development of a group of several fields and associated facilities with a common ownership may constitute a development project. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a) (8) of Regulation S-X, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Development well” A well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a) (9) of Regulation S-X, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“E&P” Exploration for and production of natural gas, oil and NGLs.

“Economically producible” The term economically producible, as it relates to a resource, means a resource which generates revenue that exceeds, or is reasonably expected to exceed, the costs of the operation. The value of the products that generate revenue shall be determined at the terminal point of oil and gas producing activities. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a) (10) of Regulation S-X, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Estimated ultimate recovery (EUR)” Estimated ultimate recovery is the sum of reserves remaining as of a given date and cumulative production as of that date. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a) (11) of Regulation S-X, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Exploitation” The development of a reservoir to extract its natural gas and/or oil.

“Exploratory well” An exploratory well is a well drilled to find a new field or to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir. Generally, an exploratory well is any well that is not a development well, an extension well, a service well, or a stratigraphic test well as those items are defined in this section. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a) (13) of Regulation S-X, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Field” An area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural feature and/or stratigraphic condition. There may be two or more reservoirs in a field that are separated vertically by intervening impervious, strata, or laterally by local geologic barriers, or by both. Reservoirs that are associated by being in overlapping or adjacent fields may be treated as a single or common operational field. The geological terms structural feature and stratigraphic condition are intended to identify localized geological features as opposed to the broader terms of basins, trends, provinces, plays, areas-of-interest, etc. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a) (15) of Regulation S-X, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Gross well or acre” A well or acre in which the registrant owns a working interest. The number of gross wells is the total number of wells in which the registrant owns a working interest. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Item 1208(c)(1) of Regulation S-K, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Gross working interest” Gross working interest is the working interest in a given property plus the proportionate share of any royalty interest, including overriding royalty interest, associated with the working interest.

“Henry Hub” A common market pricing point for natural gas in the United States, located in Louisiana.

26
Index to Financial Statements

“Hydraulic fracturing” A process whereby fluids mixed with proppants are injected into a wellbore under pressure in order to fracture, or crack open, reservoir rock, thereby allowing oil and/or natural gas trapped in the reservoir rock to travel through the fractures and into the well for production.

“Infill drilling” Drilling wells in between established producing wells to increase recovery of natural gas, oil and NGLs from a known reservoir.

“MBbls” One thousand barrels of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.

“Mcf” One thousand cubic feet of natural gas.

“Mcfe” One thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent, with liquids converted to an equivalent volume of natural gas using the ratio of one barrel of oil to six Mcf of natural gas.

“MMBbls” One million barrels of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.

“MMBtu” One million British thermal units (Btus).

“MMcf” One million cubic feet of natural gas.

“MMcfe” One million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent, with liquids converted to an equivalent volume of natural gas using the ratio of one barrel of oil to six Mcf of natural gas.

“Mont Belvieu” A pricing point for North American NGLs.

“Net acres” The sum, for any area, of the products for each tract of the acres in that tract multiplied by the working interest in that tract. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Item 1208(c)(2) of Regulation S-K, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Net revenue interest” Economic interest remaining after deducting all royalty interests, overriding royalty interests and other burdens from the working interest ownership.

“Net well” The sum, for all wells being discussed, of the working interests in those wells. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Item 1208(c)(2) of Regulation S-K, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“NGLs” Natural gas liquids (includes ethane, propane, butane, isobutane, pentane and pentanes plus).

“NYMEX” The New York Mercantile Exchange, on which spot and future contracts for natural gas and other commodities are traded.

“Operating interest” An interest in natural gas and oil that is burdened with the cost of development and operation of the property.

“Overriding royalty interest” A fractional, undivided interest or right to production or revenues, free of costs, of a lessee with respect to an oil or natural gas well, that overrides a working interest.

“Play” A term applied to a portion of the exploration and production cycle following the identification by geologists and geophysicists of areas with potential oil and natural gas reserves.

“Present Value Index” or “PVI” A measure that is computed for projects by dividing the dollars invested into the PV-10 resulting or expecting to result from the investment by the dollars invested.

“Pressure pumping spread” All of the equipment needed to carry out a hydraulic fracturing job.

“Probabilistic estimate” The method of estimation of reserves or resources is called probabilistic when the full range of values that could reasonably occur for each unknown parameter (from the geoscience and engineering data) is used to generate a full range of possible outcomes and their associated probabilities of occurrence. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a) (19) of Regulation S-X, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Producing property” A natural gas and oil property with existing production.

“Productive wells” Producing wells and wells mechanically capable of production. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Item 1208(c)(3) of Regulation S-K, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

27
Index to Financial Statements

“Proppant” Sized particles mixed with fracturing fluid to hold fractures open after a hydraulic fracturing treatment. In addition to naturally occurring sand grains, man-made or specially engineered proppants, such as resin-coated sand or high-strength ceramic materials like sintered bauxite, may also be used. Proppant materials are carefully sorted for size and sphericity to provide an efficient conduit for production of fluid from the reservoir to the wellbore.

“Proved developed producing” Proved developed reserves that can be expected to be recovered from a reservoir that is currently producing through existing wells.

“Proved developed reserves” Proved natural gas, oil and NGLs that are also developed natural gas, oil and NGL reserves.

“Proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves” Proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves are those quantities of natural gas, oil and NGLs that, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible – from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations – prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. Also referred to as “proved reserves.” For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a) (22) of Regulation S-X, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Proved reserves” See “proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves.”

“Proved undeveloped reserves” or “PUD” Proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves that are also undeveloped natural gas, oil and NGL reserves.

“PV-10” When used with respect to natural gas, oil and NGL reserves, PV-10 means the estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using prices and costs in effect as of the date of the report or estimate, without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and future income tax expense or to depreciation, depletion and amortization, discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%. Also referred to as “present value.” After-tax PV-10 is also referred to as “standardized measure” and is net of future income tax expense.

“Reserve life index” The quotient resulting from dividing total reserves by annual production and typically expressed in years.

“Reserve replacement ratio” The sum of the estimated net proved reserves added through discoveries, extensions, infill drilling and acquisitions (which may include or exclude reserve revisions of previous estimates) for a specified period of time divided by production for that same period of time.

“Reservoir” A porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible oil and/or gas that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and is individual and separate from other reservoirs. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a) (27) of Regulation S-X, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Royalty interest” An interest in a natural gas and oil property entitling the owner to a share of natural gas, oil or NGL production free of production costs.

“Tcfe” One trillion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent, with liquids converted to an equivalent volume of natural gas using the ratio of one barrel of oil to six Mcf of natural gas.

“Unconventional play” A play in which the targeted reservoirs generally fall into one of three categories: tight sands, coal beds, or shales. The reservoirs tend to cover large areas and lack the readily apparent traps, seals and discrete hydrocarbon-water boundaries that typically define conventional reservoirs. These reservoirs generally require fracture stimulation treatments or other special recovery processes in order to produce economic flow rates.

“Undeveloped acreage” Those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of economic quantities of oil or gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Item 1208(c)(4) of Regulation S-K, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Undeveloped natural gas, oil and NGL reserves” Undeveloped natural gas, oil and NGL reserves are reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Also referred to as “undeveloped reserves.” For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a) (31) of Regulation S-X, a link for which is available at the SEC’s website.

“Undeveloped reserves” See “undeveloped natural gas, oil and NGL reserves.”

28
Index to Financial Statements

“Wells to sales” Wells that have been placed on sales for the first time.

“Working interest” An operating interest that gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and to receive a share of production.

“Workovers” Operations on a producing well to restore or increase production.

“WTI” West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark oil price in the United States.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS