ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s Discussion and Analysis is the Company’s analysis of its financial performance and of significant trends that may affect future performance. It should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes, and supplemental oil and gas disclosures included elsewhere in this report. It contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements relating to the Company’s plans, strategies, objectives, expectations and intentions that are made pursuant to the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In many cases you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “estimate,” “continue,” “potential,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “will,” “objective,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “effort,” “expect,” “believe,” “predict,” “budget,” “projection,” “goal,” “forecast,” “target” or similar words. Unless required to do so under the federal securities laws, the Company does not undertake to update, revise or correct any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s disclosures under the heading: “Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements.”

OVERVIEW

Background

Southwestern Energy Company (including its subsidiaries, collectively, “we,” “our,” “us,” “the Company” or “Southwestern”) is an independent energy company engaged in natural gas, oil and NGLs exploration, development and production, which we refer to as “E&P.” We are also focused on creating and capturing additional value through our marketing business, which we call “Marketing” but previously referred to as “Midstream” when it included the operations of gathering systems. We conduct most of our businesses through subsidiaries, and we currently operate exclusively in the lower 48 United States. Our historical financial and operating results include the Fayetteville Shale E&P and related midstream gathering businesses which were sold in early December 2018.

E&P. Our primary business is the exploration for and production of natural gas, oil and NGLs, with our ongoing operations focused on the development of unconventional natural gas reservoirs located in Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Our operations in northeast Pennsylvania, which we refer to as “Northeast Appalachia,” are primarily focused on the unconventional natural gas reservoir known as the Marcellus Shale. Our operations in West Virginia and southwest Pennsylvania, which we refer to as “Southwest Appalachia,” are focused on the Marcellus Shale, the Utica and the Upper Devonian unconventional natural gas and oil reservoirs. Collectively, our properties in Pennsylvania and West Virginia are herein referred to as “Appalachia.” We also have drilling rigs located in Pennsylvania and West Virginia, and we provide certain oilfield products and services, principally serving our E&P operations though vertical integration.

Marketing. Our marketing activities capture opportunities that arise through the marketing and transportation of natural gas, oil, and NGLs primarily produced in our E&P operations. In December 2018, we divested almost all of our midstream gathering assets as part of the Fayetteville Shale sale.

Focus in 2019.  In 2019, we continued our strategy to reposition the Company through portfolio optimization, balance sheet management and leveraging our technical, commercial and operational expertise to improve margins. We continued our strategic shift towards prioritizing the development of our high-value, liquids-rich Southwest Appalachia assets over our pure natural gas assets. We strengthened our balance sheet through an additional debt reduction of $80 million (net) and by amending our revolving credit facility to extend the maturity into 2024, which improved our debt maturity profile while preserving financial and operational flexibility. We made further technological advances in drilling longer laterals with increased precision and completion optimization that enhanced well productivity and significantly reduced our well costs on a per lateral foot basis, resulting in improved returns. In addition, we focused on identifying and implementing opportunities to lower our overall cost structure. We added to our derivative portfolio, limiting the impact of price volatility on approximately 604 Bcfe and 307 Bcfe of our forecasted 2020 and 2021 production, respectively, through the use of commodity derivatives. 

Recent Financial and Operating Results

Significant operating and financial highlights for 2019 include:

Total Company

•Net income attributable to common stock of $891 million, or $1.65 per diluted share, up from a net income attributable to common stock of $535 million, or $0.93 per diluted share, in 2018. Net income increased in 2019 as a $409 million increase in deferred tax benefit, a $392 million increase in net derivative gains and a $59 million decrease in interest expense more than offset a $527 million decrease in operating income.

50
Index to Financial Statements

•Operating income of $270 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 decreased 66% from $797 million in 2018. The decrease was primarily due to lower margins associated with reduced commodity prices and the divestiture of the Fayetteville Shale E&P and related midstream gathering assets in December 2018.

•Net cash provided by operating activities of $964 million was down 21% from $1,223 million in 2018 primarily due to the decrease in operating income net of depreciation, depletion and amortization and non-cash impairments, partially offset by the improvement in settled derivatives and positive change in assets and liabilities.

•Total capital invested of $1,140 million was down 9% from $1,248 million in 2018.

•We repurchased $62 million of our outstanding long-term senior notes at a discount and recognized a gain on the extinguishment of debt of $8 million. In addition, we retired the remaining $52 million principal of our outstanding senior notes that were due in January 2020.

E&P

•E&P segment operating income of $283 million was down 64%, compared to $794 million in 2018. This excludes the impact of derivatives.

•Year-end reserves of 12,721 Bcfe increased 800 Bcfe, or 7%, from 11,921 Bcfe at the end of 2018, resulting from 1,195 Bcfe of additions and 385 Bcfe of revisions, partially offset by 778 Bcfe of production and 2 Bcfe of sales.

•Total net production of 778 Bcfe was comprised of 78% natural gas, 18% NGLs and 4% oil. In 2018, E&P segment production volumes of 946 Bcfe included 243 Bcf of production from our operations in the Fayetteville Shale, which was sold in December 2018. Excluding the impact of production from the sold Fayetteville Shale assets, our production increased 11% from 703 Bcfe in 2018, and our liquids production increased 23% over the same period.

•Excluding the effect of derivatives, our realized natural gas price of $1.98 per Mcf, realized oil price of $46.90 per barrel and realized NGL price of $11.59 per barrel decreased 19%, 17% and 35%, respectively, from 2018. Our weighted average realized price excluding the effect of derivatives of $2.18 per Mcfe decreased 18% from the same period in 2018.

•The E&P segment invested capital totaling $1,138 million, drilling 105 wells, completing 116 wells and placing 113 wells to sales.

Outlook

We expect to continue to exercise capital discipline in our 2020 capital investment program by investing within cash flow from operations, net of changes in working capital, supplemented by earmarked proceeds of the Fayetteville Shale sale that in the meantime have been used to reduce debt. We remain committed to our focus on optimizing our portfolio by concentrating our efforts on our highest return investment opportunities, looking for ways to optimize our cost structure and to maximize margins in each core area of our business and further developing our knowledge of our asset base. We believe that we and our industry will continue to face challenges due to the uncertainty of natural gas, oil and NGL prices in the United States, changes in laws, regulations and investor sentiment, and other key factors described above under “Risk Factors.”

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion of our results of operations for our segments is presented before intersegment eliminations. We report on our segments as if they were stand-alone operations and accordingly discuss their results prior to any intersegment eliminations. Restructuring charges, interest expense, gain (loss) on derivatives, gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt and income taxes are discussed on a consolidated basis.

We have applied the Securities and Exchange Commission’s recently adopted FAST Act Modernization and Simplification of Regulation S-K, which limits the discussion to the two most recent fiscal years. This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018. For the comparison of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, see “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28, 2019.

51
Index to Financial Statements

E&P

The 2018 information in the table below includes the financial results from E&P assets in the Fayetteville Shale that were sold in December 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes $2 million and $5 million in third-party water sales for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

(2)Includes $11 million of restructuring charges and $13 million of non-cash, non-full cost pool impairments for the year ended December 31, 2019.

(3)Includes $37 million of restructuring charges, an $18 million loss on the sale of assets and $15 million of non-cash, non-full cost pool asset impairments for the year ended December 31, 2018.

(4)Includes $1 million amortization of premiums paid related to certain natural gas call options for each of the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.

Operating Income

•E&P segment operating income for the year ended December 31, 2018 included $105 million related to our operations in the Fayetteville Shale, which were sold in December 2018. Excluding the amounts related to Fayetteville, our E&P segment operating income decreased $406 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, as lower margins associated with decreased commodity pricing were only partially offset by increased efficiencies and production.

Revenues

The following illustrate the effects on sales revenues associated with changes in commodity prices and production volumes:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Excludes $5 million in other operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 related to third-party water sales. 

(2)This amount represents the revenues associated with the Fayetteville Shale assets, which were sold in December 2018. There were no Fayetteville Shale revenues in 2019.

(3)Excludes $2 million in other operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 related to third-party water sales. 

52
Index to Financial Statements

Production Volumes

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The Fayetteville Shale assets were sold in December 2018.

(2)Approximately 317 Bcfe and 240 Bcfe for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were produced from the Marcellus Shale formation.

•E&P segment production volumes for the year ended December 31, 2018 included 243 Bcf of production from our operations in the Fayetteville Shale which were sold in December 2018. Excluding this amount, production volumes for our E&P segment increased 75 Bcfe for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a 31% increase in production volumes in Southwest Appalachia.

•Oil and NGL production increased 38% and 20%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to 2018, reflecting our investment in our liquids-rich acreage in Southwest Appalachia.

Commodity Prices

The price we expect to receive for our production is a critical factor in determining the capital investments we make to develop our properties. Commodity prices fluctuate due to a variety of factors we cannot control or predict, including increased supplies of natural gas, oil or NGLs due to greater exploration and development activities, weather conditions, political and economic events, and competition from other energy sources. These factors impact supply and demand, which in turn determine the sales prices for our production. In addition to these factors, the prices we realize for our production are affected by our hedging activities as well as locational differences in market prices, including basis differentials. We will continue to evaluate the commodity price environments and adjust the pace of our activities in order to maintain appropriate liquidity and financial flexibility.

53
Index to Financial Statements

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Based on last day settlement prices from monthly futures contracts.

(2)This discount includes a basis differential, a heating content adjustment, physical basis sales, third-party transportation charges and fuel charges, and excludes financial basis hedges.

We receive a sales price for our natural gas at a discount to average monthly NYMEX settlement prices based on heating content of the gas, locational basis differentials and transportation and fuel charges. Additionally, we receive a sales price for our oil and NGLs at a difference to average monthly West Texas Intermediate settlement and Mont Belvieu NGL composite prices, respectively, due to a number of factors including product quality, composition and types of NGLs sold, locational basis differentials and transportation and fuel charges.

We regularly enter into various hedging and other financial arrangements with respect to a portion of our projected natural gas, oil and NGL production in order to ensure certain desired levels of cash flow and to minimize the impact of price fluctuations, including fluctuations in locational market differentials. We refer you to Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, of this Annual Report, Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report, and our derivative risk factor for additional discussion about our derivatives and risk management activities.

The table below presents the amount of our future production in which the impact of basis volatility has been limited as of December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

54
Index to Financial Statements

In addition to limiting the impact of basis volatility, the table below presents the amount of our future production in which the impact of price volatility has been limited through the use of derivatives as of December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We refer you to Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional details about our derivative instruments.

Operating Costs and Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes eleven months of expenses from our Fayetteville Shale operations, which were sold in December 2018.

(2)Includes a $6 million residual value guarantee short-fall payment to the previous lessor of our headquarters building and $6 million of legal settlement charges for the year ended December 31, 2019.

(3)Includes $9 million of legal settlement charges for the year ended December 31, 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes post-production costs such as gathering, processing, fractionation and compression.

(2)Excludes $11 million in restructuring charges, a $6 million residual value guarantee short-fall payment to the previous lessor of our headquarters building and $6 million of legal settlement charges for the year ended December 31, 2019.

(3)Excludes $36 million in restructuring charges, $9 million of legal settlement charges for the year ended December 31, 2018.

(4)Excludes $1 million of restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Lease Operating Expenses

•Lease operating expenses per Mcfe decreased $0.01 for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to 2018, as a $0.02 per Mcfe decrease associated with the Fayetteville Shale sale was partially offset by a $0.01 per Mcfe increase primarily related to increased liquids production, which includes higher costs from processing and NGL fees.

General and Administrative Expenses

•General and administrative expenses in 2019 included a $6 million residual value guarantee short-fall payment to the previous lessor of our headquarters building and $6 million in legal settlement charges. 2018 included $9 million in legal settlement charges. Excluding these amounts, general and administrative expenses decreased $39 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to 2018, primarily due to decreased personnel costs and the implementation of cost reduction initiatives.

55
Index to Financial Statements

•On a per Mcfe basis, excluding restructuring, legal settlement charges and the residual value guarantee short-fall payment, general and administrative expenses per Mcfe decreased by $0.01 for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to 2018, as a decrease in expenses more than offset an 18% decrease in production volumes primarily associated with the Fayetteville Shale sale.

Taxes, Other than Income Taxes

•Taxes other than income taxes per Mcfe may vary from period to period due to changes in ad valorem and severance taxes that result from the mix of our production volumes and fluctuations in commodity prices. Taxes, other than income taxes, per Mcfe decreased $0.01 per Mcfe for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a $7 million severance tax refund/credit received in the fourth quarter of 2019 related to additional favorable assessments on deductible expenses in Southwest Appalachia and lower realized commodity pricing in 2019. In 2018, we received an $8 million severance tax refund related to a favorable assessment on deductible expenses in Southwest Appalachia which reduced our average severance tax rate applied in 2019.

Full Cost Pool Amortization

•Our full cost pool amortization rate increased $0.05 per Mcfe for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to 2018. The increase in the average amortization rate resulted primarily as a result of the impact of capital investments and the further evaluation of our unproved properties during the year and the impact of the Fayetteville Shale sale, which reduced our total natural gas reserves along with the carrying value of our full cost pool assets.

•The amortization rate is impacted by the timing and amount of reserve additions and the future development costs associated with those additions, revisions of previous reserve estimates due to both price and well performance, write-downs that result from non-cash full cost ceiling impairments, proceeds from the sale of properties that reduce the full cost pool, and the levels of costs subject to amortization. We cannot predict our future full cost pool amortization rate with accuracy due to the variability of each of the factors discussed above, as well as other factors, including but not limited to the uncertainty of the amount of future reserve changes.

•Unevaluated costs excluded from amortization were $1.5 billion at December 31, 2019 compared to $1.8 billion at December 31, 2018. The unevaluated costs excluded from amortization decreased, as compared to 2018, as the evaluation of previously unevaluated properties totaling $507 million in 2019 was only partially offset by the impact of $258 million of unevaluated capital invested during the same period.

See “Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures” in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report for additional information regarding our unevaluated costs excluded from amortization.

Impairments

•During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized non-cash impairments of $13 million associated with non-core E&P assets.

•In accordance with accounting guidance for Property, Plant and Equipment, assets held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value or fair value less costs to sell. Because the assets outside the full cost pool associated with the Fayetteville Shale sale met the criteria for held for sale accounting in the third quarter of 2018, we determined the carrying value of certain non-full cost pool E&P assets exceeded the fair value less costs to sell. As a result, a non-cash impairment charge of $15 million was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2018.

56
Index to Financial Statements

Marketing

The 2018 information in the table below includes the results from the gas gathering assets included in the Fayetteville Shale sale which closed in December 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Amounts for 2018 include our Fayetteville Shale-related midstream gathering business, which was sold in December 2018.

(2)Includes $2 million of restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2018.

(3)Includes a $145 million non-cash impairment related to the midstream gathering assets associated with the Fayetteville Shale sale in December 2018 and a $10 million non-cash impairment related to certain non-core gathering assets for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Operating Income

•Marketing operating income for the year ended December 31, 2018 included a $7 million loss related to our midstream gathering operations in the Fayetteville Shale, which we sold in December 2018. Excluding this amount, operating income decreased $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to 2018, primarily due to a $26 million decrease in marketing margin.

•The margin generated from marketing activities was $16 million and $42 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Marketing margins are driven primarily by volumes marketed and may fluctuate depending on the prices paid for commodities, related cost of transportation and the ultimate disposition of those commodities. Increases and decreases in marketing revenues due to changes in commodity prices and volumes marketed are largely offset by corresponding changes in marketing purchase expenses. Efforts to mitigate the costs of excess transportation capacity can result in greater expenses and therefore lower Marketing margins.

Revenues

•Revenues from our marketing activities decreased $648 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to 2018, primarily due to a 14% decrease in the price received for volumes marketed and a 62 Bcfe decrease in the volumes marketed.

Operating Costs and Expenses

•Marketing operating costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2018 included $140 million related to our midstream gathering operations in the Fayetteville Shale, which were sold in December 2018. Excluding this amount, operating costs and expenses decreased $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to decreased personnel costs and the implementation of cost reduction initiatives.

Impairments

•In the third quarter of 2019, we recorded non-cash impairments of $3 million to non-core gathering assets. 

57
Index to Financial Statements

•During 2018, we determined the carrying value of our midstream gathering assets held for sale exceeded the fair value less the costs to sell. As a result, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $145 million in 2018. Additionally, in 2018, we recognized a $10 million non-cash impairment on unrelated non-core gathering assets. 

Consolidated

Restructuring Charges

For the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized total restructuring charges of $11 million, of which $6 million primarily related to office consolidation and $5 million in cash severance, including payroll taxes withheld. As of December 31, 2019, we had recorded a liability of $2 million related to severance to be paid out in 2020.

In June 2018, we announced a workforce reduction plan, which resulted primarily from our previously announced study of structural, process and organizational changes to enhance shareholder value and continues with respect to other aspects of our business and activities. Affected employees were offered a severance package, which included a one-time cash payment depending on length of service and, if applicable, the current value of a portion of equity awards that were canceled. We recognized $23 million in restructuring charges related to the workforce reduction plan for the year ended December 31, 2018.

In December 2018, we closed the sale of the equity in certain of our subsidiaries that owned and operated our Fayetteville Shale E&P and related midstream gathering assets in Arkansas. As part of this transaction, most employees associated with those assets became employees of the buyer, although the employment of some was terminated. All affected employees were offered a severance package, which included a one-time cash payment depending on length of service and, if applicable, the current value of a portion of equity awards that were forfeited. We incurred $12 million in severance costs related to the Fayetteville Shale sale for the year ended December 31, 2018 and have recognized these costs as restructuring charges.

As a result of the Fayetteville Shale sale during 2018, we incurred $4 million in charges primarily related to office consolidation and recognized these costs as restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

Interest Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Interest expense related to our senior notes decreased for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, as we repurchased $114 million and $900 million of our outstanding senior notes in the second half of 2019 and December 2018, respectively. Additionally, S&P and Moody's upgraded our public bond ratings in April and May 2018, respectively, which lowered the interest relates associated with our senior notes due 2020 and 2025 by 50 basis points, starting in July 2018.

•For the year ended December 31, 2019, interest expense related to our credit arrangements decreased, as compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to the extinguishment of our 2016 term loan and entering into our revolving credit facility in April 2018, which decreased our outstanding borrowing amount, along with the repayment of our revolving credit facility borrowings with a portion of the net proceeds from the Fayetteville Shale sale in December 2018.

•Capitalized interest decreased $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, due to the evaluation of natural gas and oil properties over the past twelve months. Capitalized interest increased over the same periods as a percentage of gross interest expense primarily due to a smaller percentage decrease in our unevaluated natural gas and oil properties balance, as compared to the larger percentage decrease in our gross interest expense over the same period, in addition to an increase in our average cost of debt over the past twelve months. 

58
Index to Financial Statements

Gain (Loss) on Derivatives

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes $1 million of premiums paid related to certain natural gas purchased call options for each of the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, which is included in gain (loss) on derivatives on the consolidated statement of operations.

We refer you to Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional details about our gain (loss) on derivatives.

Gain (Loss) on Early Extinguishment of Debt

•In 2019, we recorded a gain of $8 million on early extinguishment of debt as a result of our repurchase at a discount of $62 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding senior notes. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report for more information on our long-term debt.

•In December 2018, we used a portion of the net proceeds from our Fayetteville Shale sale to repurchase $40 million of our senior notes due January 2020, $787 million of our senior notes due March 2022 and $73 million of our senior notes due January 2025. We recognized a loss of $9 million for the redemption of these senior notes, which included $2 million of premiums paid.

•Concurrent with the closing of our revolving credit facility in April 2018, we repaid our $1,191 million 2016 secured term loan balance and recognized a loss of $8 million on early debt extinguishment on the consolidated statements of operations related to the unamortized debt issuance expense.

Income Taxes

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•As of the first quarter of 2019, we had sustained a three-year cumulative level of profitability. Based on this factor and other positive evidence including forecasted income, we concluded that it was more likely than not that the deferred tax assets would be realized and determined that $522 million of the valuation allowance will be released. As a result, a net tax benefit was recorded during 2019 of $411 million, which was primarily comprised of a deferred tax benefit of $522 million related to the valuation allowance release offset by the recognition of deferred tax expense of $112 million related to taxes on pre-tax income. We expect to retain a valuation allowance of $87 million related to net operating losses in jurisdictions in which we no longer operate.

•Our low effective income tax rate in 2018 was the result of our recognition of a valuation allowance that reduced the deferred tax asset primarily related to our current net operating loss carryforward, as well as changes to the deferred tax rate enacted under the Tax Reform Act. A valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, including net operating losses, is recognized when it is more likely than not that some or all of the benefit from the deferred tax asset will not be realized.

We refer you to Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional discussion about our income taxes.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We depend primarily on funds generated from our operations, our secured revolving credit facility, our cash and cash equivalents balance and capital markets as our primary sources of liquidity. We refer you to Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report and the section below under “Credit Arrangements and Financing Activities” for additional discussion of our revolving credit facility. Looking forward to 2020, although we have financial flexibility with our ability to draw on the $1.8 billion in available liquidity under our revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2019, we remain committed to our capital discipline strategy of investing within our cash flow from operations net of changes in working capital, supplemented by a portion of the remaining net proceeds from the Fayetteville Shale sale realized in December 2018 that in the meantime was used to reduce outstanding debt. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional discussion of the Fayetteville Shale sale.

59
Index to Financial Statements

In December 2018, we closed on the Fayetteville Shale sale and received net proceeds of approximately $1,650 million after customary purchase price adjustments. From the net proceeds received, $914 million was immediately used to repurchase $900 million of our outstanding senior notes along with related accrued interest and retirement premiums paid, $201 million was used in late 2018 and early 2019 to repurchase over 44 million shares of our outstanding common stock and the remainder was earmarked to supplement our 2019 and 2020 capital investing programs. Rather than hold these proceeds as cash and cash equivalents during this time, we chose to repurchase or pay down outstanding debt until such time that the sale proceeds would be used to supplement our capital investing program. Accordingly, as our 2020 capital investing program is expected to exceed our cash flow from operations, net of changes in working capital, supplemented by Fayetteville Shale sale proceeds, we plan on drawing no more than $300 million of the remaining earmarked sale proceeds from our revolving credit facility.

Our cash flow from operating activities is highly dependent upon the sales prices that we receive for our natural gas and liquids production. Natural gas, oil and NGL prices are subject to wide fluctuations and are driven by market supply and demand, which is impacted by many factors. The sales price we realize for our production is also influenced by our commodity hedging activities. Our derivative contracts allow us to ensure a certain level of cash flow to fund our operations. In 2019, gains on derivatives have offset a large portion of the impact of the recent decline in prices, and we currently have derivative positions in place for portions of our expected 2020, 2021 and 2022 production at prices above current market levels. There can be no assurance that we will be able to add derivative positions to cover the remainder of our expected production at favorable prices. See “Risk Factors” in Item 1A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 7A and Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for further details.

Our commodity hedging activities are subject to the credit risk of our counterparties being financially unable to settle the transaction. We actively monitor the credit status of our counterparties, performing both quantitative and qualitative assessments based on their credit ratings and credit default swap rates where applicable, and to date have not had any credit defaults associated with our transactions. However, any future failures by one or more counterparties could negatively impact our cash flow from operating activities.

Our short-term cash flows are also dependent on the timely collection of receivables from our customers and joint interest owners. We actively manage this risk through credit management activities and, through the date of this filing, have not experienced any significant write-offs for non-collectable amounts. However, any sustained inaccessibility of credit by our customers and joint interest partners could adversely impact our cash flows.

Due to the above factors, we are unable to forecast with certainty our future level of cash flow from operations. Accordingly, we expect to adjust our discretionary uses of cash depending upon available cash flow. Further, we may from time to time seek to retire, rearrange or amend some or all of our outstanding debt or debt agreements through cash purchases, and/or exchanges, open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, tender offers or otherwise. Such transactions, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material.

Credit Arrangements and Financing Activities

In April 2018, we replaced our 2016 credit facility with a new revolving credit facility. The 2018 credit facility has an aggregate maximum revolving credit amount of $3.5 billion with a current aggregate commitment of $2.0 billion and a borrowing base (limit on availability) that is redetermined at least each April and October. The 2018 credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, including most of our subsidiaries. The permitted lien provisions in the senior note indentures currently limit liens securing indebtedness to the greater of $2.0 billion or 25% of adjusted consolidated net tangible assets. In October 2019, we entered into an amendment to the 2018 credit facility that, among other things, established the October 2019 borrowing base at $2.1 billion and extended the maturity date to April 2024. The borrowing base is subject to change based primarily on drilling results, commodity prices, our future derivative position, the level of capital investing and operating costs. As of December 31, 2019, we had $34 million borrowings on our revolving credit facility and $172 million in outstanding letters of credit.

As of December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all of the covenants of our revolving credit facility in all material respects. Our ability to comply with financial covenants is dependent upon the success of our development program and upon factors beyond our control, such as the market prices for natural gas and liquids. We refer you to Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional discussion of the covenant requirements of our 2018 revolving credit facility.

The credit status of the financial institutions participating in our revolving credit facility could adversely impact our ability to borrow funds under the revolving credit facility. Although we believe all of the lenders under the facility have the ability to 

60
Index to Financial Statements

provide funds, we cannot predict whether each will be able to meet their obligation to us. We refer you to Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional discussion of our revolving credit facility.

In the second half of 2019, we repurchased $35 million of our 4.95% Senior Notes due 2025, $11 million of our 7.50% Senior Notes due 2026 and $16 million of our 7.75% Senior Notes due 2027, and recognized an $8 million gain on extinguishment of debt. Additionally, in December 2019, we retired the remaining $52 million principal of our 4.05% Senior Notes due 2020.

Because of the focused work on refinancing and repayment of our debt during the last three years, only $247 million, or 11%, of our outstanding debt balance as of December 31, 2019 is scheduled to become due prior to 2025. 

At February 25, 2020, we had a long-term issuer credit rating of Ba2 by Moody’s, a long-term debt rating of BB by S&P and a long-term issuer default rating of BB by Fitch Ratings. Any upgrades or downgrades in our public debt ratings by Moody’s or S&P could decrease or increase our cost of funds, respectively.

Cash Flows

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash Flow from Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Net cash provided by operating activities decreased 21% or $259 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in revenues resulting from an 18% decrease in production volumes as a result of the Fayetteville Shale sale in December 2018 and a 6% decrease in our weighted average realized commodity price, including derivatives.

•Net cash generated from operating activities, net of changes in working capital, provided 79% of our cash requirements for capital investments for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to providing 105% of our cash requirements for capital investments for the same period in 2018. As discussed above, a portion of the Fayetteville Shale sale proceeds was also used to fund the 2019 capital investment program.

Cash Flow from Investing Activities

•Total E&P capital investing decreased $93 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, due to a $73 million decrease in direct E&P capital investing, a $14 million decrease in capitalized internal costs and a $6 million decrease in capitalized interest. 

•The decrease in capitalized interest for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily due to the evaluation of natural gas and oil properties over the past twelve months.

•Marketing capital investing decreased $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to the sale of the midstream gathering assets associated with the Fayetteville Shale in December 2018.

61
Index to Financial Statements

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes capitalized non-cash stock-based compensation and costs to retire assets, which are classified as cash used in operating activities.

Capital Investing

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Included our midstream gathering business in the Fayetteville Shale was sold in December 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The Fayetteville Shale assets were sold in December 2018.

(2)Includes $35 million and $60 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, related to our water infrastructure project.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Actual capital expenditure levels may vary significantly from period to period due to many factors, including drilling results, natural gas, oil and NGL prices, industry conditions, the prices and availability of goods and services, and the extent to which properties are acquired or non-strategic assets are sold.

62
Index to Financial Statements

Cash Flow from Financing Activities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The decrease in total debt as of December 31, 2019, as compared to December 31, 2018, primarily relates to the repurchase of $114 of our outstanding senior notes in the second half of 2019, partially offset by a $34 million increase in our revolving credit facility borrowings.

•Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $115 million, compared to net cash used in financing activities of $2,297 million for the same period in 2018. 

•In January 2019, we repurchased approximately 5 million shares of common stock for approximately $21 million.

•In the second half of 2019, we paid $54 million on the open market to repurchase $62 million of our outstanding senior notes at a discount. We recognized a gain on early extinguishment of debt of $8 million.

•In December 2019, we retired the remaining $52 million principal of our 4.05% Senior Notes due January 2020.

•In January 2018, we paid $27 million for a preferred stock dividend declared in the fourth quarter of 2017.

•In April 2018, we fully repaid our $1,191 million 2016 term loan and replaced it with the 2018 revolving credit facility with a $2.1 billion borrowing base. We recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $8 million.

•In December 2018, upon closing of the Fayetteville Shale sale, a portion of the sale proceeds was used to fund tender offers to repurchase $900 million of our outstanding senior notes. We recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $9 million, primarily related to the early retirement premiums.

•We also used a portion of the net proceeds from the Fayetteville Shale sale to repurchase 39 million shares of common stock for approximately $180 million in December 2018.

We refer you to Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional discussion of our outstanding debt and credit facility.

Working Capital

•We had negative working capital of $169 million at December 31, 2019, a $279 million decrease from December 31, 2018, as a decrease of $236 million in accounts receivable as compared to December 31, 2018, primarily related to the sale of the Fayetteville Shale production in December 2018 and lower commodity prices, a decrease of $196 million in cash and cash equivalents and a current liability of $34 million recorded in 2019 related to the implementation of the new lease accounting standard (Topic 842), were only partially offset by a $102 million increase in the net current mark-to-market value of our derivative position and an $84 million decrease in accounts payable, as compared to December 31, 2018.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We may enter into off-balance sheet arrangements and transactions that can give rise to material off-balance sheet obligations. As of December 31, 2019, our material off-balance sheet arrangements and transactions include operating service arrangements, $172 million in letters of credit outstanding against our 2018 revolving credit facility and $55 million in outstanding surety bonds. There are no other transactions, arrangements or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect our liquidity or availability of our capital resources. For more information regarding off-balance sheet arrangements, we refer you to “Contractual Obligations and Contingent Liabilities and Commitments” below for more information on our operating leases.

63
Index to Financial Statements

Contractual Obligations and Contingent Liabilities and Commitments

We have various contractual obligations in the normal course of our operations and financing activities. Significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019, were as follows:

Contractual Obligations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)As of December 31, 2019, we had commitments for demand and similar charges under firm transportation and gathering agreements to guarantee access capacity on natural gas and liquids pipelines and gathering systems. Of the total $8.5 billion, $1.1 billion related to access capacity on future pipeline and gathering infrastructure projects that still require the granting of regulatory approvals and additional construction efforts. For further information, we refer you to “Operational Commitments and Contingencies” in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. This amount also included guarantee obligations of up to $293 million.

Included in the transportation charges above is $108 million (due in less than one year) related to certain agreements that remain in the name of our marketing affiliate but are expected to be paid in full by Flywheel Energy Operating, LLC, the purchaser of the Fayetteville Shale assets. Of these amounts, we may be obligated to reimburse Flywheel Energy Operating, LLC, for a portion of volumetric shortfalls during 2020 (up to $58 million) under these transportation agreements and have currently recorded a $46 million liability as of December 31, 2019, down from $88 million recorded at December 31, 2018.

In the first quarter of 2019, we agreed to purchase firm transportation with pipelines in the Appalachian basin starting in 2021 and running through 2032 totaling $357 million in total contractual commitments of which the seller has agreed to reimburse $133 million of these commitments.

In February 2020, we were notified that the proposed Constitution pipeline project was cancelled and that we were released from a firm transportation agreement with its sponsor. As of December 31, 2019, we had contractual commitments totaling $512 million over the next seventeen years related to the Constitution pipeline project that are reflected in the table above as transportation obligations that were pending regulatory approval and/or construction. These amounts are $6 million within one to three years, $68 million within three to five years, $102 million within five to eight years and $336 million more than eight years forward.

(2)Interest payments on our senior notes were calculated utilizing the fixed rates associated with our fixed rate notes outstanding at December 31, 2019. Senior note interest rates were based on our credit ratings as of December 31, 2019.

(3)Operating leases include costs for compressors, drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment, office space and other equipment under non-cancelable operating leases expiring through 2029.

During the second quarter of 2019, we executed an agreement to convey our purchase option in our headquarters office building to a third-party, which closed on the purchase of the building in July 2019. Concurrent with the closing of the building sale, we terminated our existing lease agreement and entered into a new 10-year lease agreement for a smaller portion of the headquarters building in July 2019, resulting in an estimated annual savings of $7 million to $8 million.

(4)As of December 31, 2019, our E&P segment had commitments of approximately $37 million for compression services associated primarily with our Southwest Appalachia division.

(5)Our other significant contractual obligations include approximately $12 million for various information technology support and data subscription agreements.

Future contributions to the pension and postretirement benefit plans are excluded from the table above. For further information regarding our pension and other postretirement benefit plans, we refer you to Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” below for additional information.

We refer you to Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for a discussion of the terms of our debt. 

We are subject to various litigation, claims and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as for alleged breaches of contract, miscalculation of royalties, employment matters, traffic incidents, pollution, contamination, encroachment on others’ property or nuisance. We accrue for such items when a liability is both probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Management believes that current litigation, claims and proceedings, individually or in aggregate and after taking into account insurance, are not likely to have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, although it is possible that adverse outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows for the period in which the effect of that outcome becomes reasonably estimable. Many of these matters are in early stages, so the 

64
Index to Financial Statements

allegations and the damage theories have not been fully developed, and are all subject to inherent uncertainties; therefore, management’s view may change in the future.

We are also subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Environmental and cleanup related costs of a non-capital nature are accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and when the amount can be reasonably estimated. Management believes any future remediation or other compliance related costs will not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

For further information, we refer you to “Litigation” and “Environmental Risk” in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following describes significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Natural Gas and Oil Properties

We utilize the full cost method of accounting for costs related to the exploration, development and acquisition of natural gas and oil properties. Under this method, all such costs (productive and nonproductive), including salaries, benefits and other internal costs directly attributable to these activities are capitalized on a country-by-country basis and amortized over the estimated lives of the properties using the units-of-production method. These capitalized costs are subject to a ceiling test that limits such pooled costs, net of applicable deferred taxes, to the aggregate of the present value of future net revenues attributable to proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves discounted at 10% (standardized measure) plus the lower of cost or market value of unproved properties. Any costs in excess of the ceiling are written off as a non-cash expense. The expense may not be reversed in future periods, even though higher natural gas, oil and NGL prices may subsequently increase the ceiling. Companies using the full cost method are required to use the average quoted price from the first day of each month from the previous 12 months, including the impact of derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges, to calculate the ceiling value of their reserves.

Costs associated with unevaluated properties are excluded from our amortization base until we have evaluated the properties or impairment is indicated. The costs associated with unevaluated leasehold acreage and related seismic data, wells currently drilling and related capitalized interest are initially excluded from our amortization base. Leasehold costs are either transferred to our amortization base with the costs of drilling a well on the lease or are assessed at least annually for possible impairment or reduction in value. Our decision to withhold costs from amortization and the timing of the transfer of those costs into the amortization base involves judgment and may be subject to changes over time based on several factors, including our drilling plans, availability of capital, project economics and drilling results from adjacent acreage. At December 31, 2019, we had approximately $1,506 million of costs excluded from our amortization base, all of which related to our properties in the United States. Inclusion of some or all of these costs in our properties in the United States in the future, without adding any associated reserves, could result in non-cash ceiling test impairments.

At December 31, 2019, the ceiling value of our reserves was calculated based upon the average quoted price from the first day of each month from the previous 12 months for Henry Hub natural gas of $2.58 per MMBtu, for West Texas Intermediate oil of $55.69 per barrel and NGLs of $11.58 per barrel, adjusted for market differentials. The net book value of our natural gas and oil properties did not exceed the ceiling amount and did not result in a ceiling test impairment at December 31, 2019. We had no derivative positions that were designated for hedge accounting as of December 31, 2019. Although no ceiling test impairment was recorded in 2019, given the fall in commodity prices in 2019 and early 2020 and assuming that commodity prices remain at January 2020 levels for the rest of the first quarter of 2020, we expect a non-cash impairment to our natural gas and oil properties in the first quarter of 2020 ranging from approximately $400 million to $600 million, net of tax. Future decreases in commodity prices, increases in costs and/or changes in the balance of costs excluded from amortization and other factors may result in further non-cash impairments to our natural gas and oil properties.

Using the average quoted price from the first day of each month from the previous 12 months for Henry Hub natural gas of $3.10 per MMBtu, West Texas Intermediate oil of $65.56 per barrel and NGLs of $17.64 per barrel, adjusted for market differentials, the net book value of our United States natural gas and oil properties did not exceed the ceiling amount and did not 

65
Index to Financial Statements

result in a ceiling test impairment at December 31, 2018. We had no derivative positions that were designated for hedge accounting as of December 31, 2018.

A decline in natural gas, oil and NGL prices used to calculate the discounted future net revenues of our reserves affects both the present value of cash flows and the quantity of reserves. In the past, nearly all of our reserve base was natural gas; therefore changes in oil and NGL prices did not have as significant an impact as natural gas prices on cash flows and reserve quantities. However, with the sale of our Fayetteville Shale assets in 2018 and our strategic shift towards developing our liquids-rich assets in recent years, our reserve base as of December 31, 2019 was approximately 68% natural gas, 29% NGLs and 3% oil. Therefore, NGL and oil pricing will have a more significant impact on the cash flows and quantity of reserves going forward. Our standardized measure and reserve quantities as of December 31, 2019, were $3.7 billion and 12.7 Tcfe, respectively.

Natural gas, oil and NGL reserves cannot be measured exactly. Our estimate of natural gas, oil and NGL reserves requires extensive judgments of reservoir engineering data and projections of costs that will be incurred in developing and producing reserves and is generally less precise than other estimates made in connection with financial disclosures. Our reservoir engineers prepare our reserve estimates under the supervision of our management. Reserve estimates are prepared for each of our properties annually by the reservoir engineers assigned to the asset management team for that property. The reservoir engineering and financial data included in these estimates are reviewed by senior engineers, who are not part of the asset management teams, and by our Director of Reserves, who is the technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserves estimates. Our Director of Reserves has more than 25 years of experience in petroleum engineering, including the estimation of natural gas and oil reserves, and holds a Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering. Prior to joining us in 2018, our Director of Reserves served in various reservoir engineering roles for EP Energy Company, El Paso Corporation, Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, Schlumberger and H.J. Gruy & Associates, and is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers. He reports to our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, who has more than 31 years of experience in petroleum engineering including the estimation of natural gas, oil and NGL reserves in multiple basins in the United States, and holds a Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering. Prior to joining Southwestern in 2017, our Chief Operating Officer served in various engineering and leadership roles for EP Energy Corporation, El Paso Corporation, ARCO Oil and Gas Company, Burlington Resources and Peoples Energy Production, and is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.

We engage NSAI, a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies, to independently audit our proved reserves estimates as discussed in more detail below. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No. F-002699. Within NSAI, the two technical persons primarily responsible for auditing our proved reserves estimates (1) have over 38 years and over 17 years of practical experience in petroleum geosciences and petroleum engineering, respectively; (2) have over 28 years and over 17 years of experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves, respectively; (3) each has a college degree; (4) each is a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas or a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas; (5) each meets or exceeds the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; and (6) each is proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines. The financial data included in the reserve estimates is also separately reviewed by our accounting staff. Our proved reserves estimates, as internally reviewed and audited by NSAI, are submitted for review and approval to our President and Chief Executive Officer. Finally, upon his approval, NSAI reports the results of its reserve audit to the Board of Directors, with whom final authority over the estimates of our proved reserves rests. A copy of NSAI’s report has been filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report. 

Proved developed reserves generally have a higher degree of accuracy in this estimation process, when compared to proved undeveloped and proved non-producing reserves, as production history and pressure data over time is available for the majority of our proved developed properties. Proved developed reserves accounted for 50% of our total reserve base as of December 31, 2019. Assigning monetary values to such estimates does not reduce the subjectivity and changing nature of such reserve estimates. The uncertainties inherent in the reserve estimates are compounded by applying additional estimates of the rates and timing of production volumes and the costs that will be incurred in developing and producing the reserves. We cannot assure you that our internal controls sufficiently address the numerous uncertainties and risks that are inherent in estimating quantities of natural gas, oil and NGL reserves and projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures as many factors are beyond our control. We refer you to “Our proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves are estimates that include uncertainties. Any material changes to these uncertainties or underlying assumptions could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated or understated” in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of Part I of this Annual Report for a more detailed discussion of these uncertainties, risks and other factors.

66
Index to Financial Statements

In conducting its audit, the engineers and geologists of NSAI study our major properties in detail and independently develop reserve estimates. NSAI’s audit consists primarily of substantive testing, which includes a detailed review of major properties that account for approximately 99% of the present worth of the company’s total proved reserves. NSAI’s audit process consists of sorting all fields by descending present value order and selecting the fields from highest value to descending value until the selected fields account for more than 80% of the present worth of our reserves. The fields included in approximately the top 99% present value as of December 31, 2019, accounted for approximately 99% of our total proved reserves and approximately 100% of our proved undeveloped reserves. In the conduct of its audit, NSAI did not independently verify the data we provided to them with respect to ownership interests, natural gas, oil and NGL production, well test data, historical costs of operation and development, product prices, or any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties and sales of production. NSAI has advised us that if, in the course of its audit, something came to its attention that brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, NSAI did not rely on such information or data until it had satisfactorily resolved any questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data. On February 7, 2020, NSAI issued its audit opinion as to the reasonableness of our reserve estimates for the year-ended December 31, 2019 stating that our estimated proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves are, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers.

Assets and liabilities held for sale are subject to an assessment of fair value which includes many key valuation estimates, inputs and assumptions including but not limited to: production forecasts, pricing, basis differentials, operating and general and administrative expense forecasts, future development costs, discount rate determination and tax inputs. In the third quarter of 2018, we recognized certain assets and liabilities as held for sale related to the Fayetteville Shale sale requiring a comparison of their respective carrying cost and fair value less costs to sell. Our full cost pool assets were excluded from held for sale accounting treatment as they are governed by SEC Regulation S-X Rule 4-10. The fair value of our gathering assets to be sold was estimated using an estimated discounted cash flow model along with market assumptions. The assumptions used in the calculation of estimated discounted cash flows included future commodity prices, projections of estimated quantities of natural gas reserves, operating costs, projections of future rates of production, inflation factors and risk-adjusted discount rates. We believe the assumptions used were reasonable.

Under full cost accounting rules, sales of oil and gas properties, whether or not being amortized currently, shall be accounted for as a reduction of the full cost pool, with no gain or loss recognized, unless such adjustments would significantly alter the relationship between capitalized costs and proved reserves of oil and gas attributable to a cost center. For instance, a significant alteration would not ordinarily be expected to occur for sales involving less than 25 percent of the reserve quantities of a given cost center. Judgments are required around the determination of whether a divestment is deemed significant. Such judgments include an assessment of the of the reserve quantities sold as compared to total reserve quantities and other qualitative and quantitative assessments of the relationship between capitalized costs and proved reserves. We did not recognize a gain or loss on the sale of our oil and gas properties as the divestment was deemed not significant. Please refer to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for further detail.

Derivatives and Risk Management

We use fixed price swap agreements and options to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flow due to fluctuations in the prices of certain commodities and interest rates. Our policies prohibit speculation with derivatives and limit agreements to counterparties with appropriate credit standings to minimize the risk of uncollectability. We actively monitor the credit status of our counterparties based on their credit ratings and credit default swap rates where applicable, and to date have not had any credit defaults associated with our transactions. In both 2019 and 2018, we financially protected 69% of our total production with derivatives. The primary risks related to our derivative contracts are the volatility in market prices and basis differentials for our production. However, the market price risk is generally offset by the gain or loss recognized upon the related transaction that is financially protected.

All derivatives are recognized in the balance sheet as either an asset or a liability as measured at fair value other than transactions for which the normal purchase/normal sale exception is applied. Certain criteria must be satisfied for derivative financial instruments to be designated for hedge accounting. Accounting guidance for qualifying hedges allows an unsettled derivative’s unrealized gains and losses to be recorded in either earnings or as a component of other comprehensive income until settled. In the period of settlement, we recognize the gains and losses from these qualifying hedges in gas sales revenues. The ineffective portion of those fixed price swaps was recognized in earnings. Gains and losses on derivatives that are not designated for hedge accounting treatment, or that do not meet hedge accounting requirements, are recorded as a component of gain (loss) on derivatives on the consolidated statements of operations. Accordingly, the gain (loss) on derivatives component of the statement of operations reflects the gains and losses on both settled and unsettled derivatives. We calculate gains and losses on settled derivatives as the summation of gains and losses on positions which have settled within the reporting period.

67
Index to Financial Statements

As of December 31, 2019, none of our derivative contracts were designated for hedge accounting treatment. Changes in the fair value of unsettled derivatives that were not designated for hedge accounting treatment are recorded in gain (loss) on derivatives. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information on our derivative position at December 31, 2019.

Future market price volatility could create significant changes to the derivative positions recorded in our consolidated financial statements. We refer you to “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 7A of Part II of this Annual Report for additional information regarding our hedging activities.

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

We record our prepaid or accrued benefit cost, as well as our periodic benefit cost, for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans using measurement assumptions that we consider reasonable at the time of calculation (see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for further discussion and disclosures regarding these benefit plans). Two of the assumptions that affect the amounts recorded are the discount rate, which estimates the rate at which benefits could be effectively settled, and the expected return on plan assets, which reflects the average rate of earnings expected on the funds invested. For the December 31, 2019 benefit obligation and periodic benefit cost to be recorded in 2020, the initial discount rate assumed is 3.70%. This compares to an initial discount rate of 4.35% for the benefit obligation and periodic benefit cost recorded in 2019. For the 2020 periodic benefit cost, the expected return assumed decreased to 6.50%, from 7.00% in 2019.

Using the assumed rates discussed above, we recorded total benefit cost of $15 million in 2019 related to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Due to the significance of the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return, the following sensitivity analysis demonstrates the effect that a 0.5% change in those assumptions would have had on our 2019 pension expense:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2019, we recognized a liability of $43 million, compared to $47 million at December 31, 2018, related to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. During 2019, we also made cash contributions totaling $14 million to fund our pension and other postretirement benefit plans.

Stock-Based Compensation

We account for stock-based compensation transactions using a fair value method and recognize an amount equal to the fair value of the stock options and stock-based payment cost in either the consolidated statement of operations or capitalize the cost into natural gas and oil properties included in property and equipment. Costs are capitalized when they are directly related to the acquisition, exploration and development activities of our natural gas and oil properties. We use models to determine fair value of stock-based compensation, which requires significant judgment with respect to forfeitures, volatility and other factors. 

Our stock-based compensation is classified as either an equity award or a liability award in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The fair value of an equity-classified award is determined at the grant date and is amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting life of the award. The fair-value of a liability-classified award is determined on a quarterly basis through the final vesting date and is amortized based on the current fair value of the award and the percentage of vesting period incurred to date.

New Accounting Standards

Refer to Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for further discussion of our significant accounting policies and for discussion of accounting standards that have been implemented in this report, along with a discussion of relevant accounting standards that are pending adoption.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

All statements, other than historical fact or present financial information, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements that address activities, outcomes and other matters that should or may occur in the future, including, without limitation, statements regarding the financial position, business strategy, production and reserve growth and other plans and objectives for our future operations, are forward-looking statements. Although we believe the expectations expressed in such 

68
Index to Financial Statements

forward-looking statements, they are not guarantees of future performance. We have no obligation and make no undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, except as may be required by law.

Forward-looking statements include the items identified in the preceding paragraph, information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations and other statements in this Annual Report identified by words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “estimate,” “continue,” “potential,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “will,” “objective,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “effort,” “expect,” “believe,” “predict,” “budget,” “projection,” “goal,” “forecast,” “target” or similar words.

You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. They are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect our operations, markets, products, services and prices and cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with forward-looking statements, risks, uncertainties and factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: 

•the timing and extent of changes in market conditions and prices for natural gas, oil and NGLs (including regional basis differentials);

•our ability to fund our planned capital investments;

•a change in our credit rating, an increase in interest rates and any adverse impacts from the discontinuation of the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”);

•the extent to which lower commodity prices impact our ability to service or refinance our existing debt;

•the impact of volatility in the financial markets or other global economic factors, including the possible impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19);

•difficulties in appropriately allocating capital and resources among our strategic opportunities;

•the timing and extent of our success in discovering, developing, producing and estimating reserves;

•our ability to maintain leases that may expire if production is not established or profitably maintained;

•our ability to realize the expected benefits from acquisitions;

•our ability to transport our production to the most favorable markets or at all;

•availability and costs of personnel and of products and services provided by third parties;

•the impact of government regulation, including changes in law, the ability to obtain and maintain permits, any increase in severance or similar taxes, and legislation or regulation relating to hydraulic fracturing, climate and over-the-counter derivatives;

•the impact of the adverse outcome of any material litigation against us or judicial decisions that affect us or our industry generally;

•the effects of weather;

•increased competition;

•the financial impact of accounting regulations and critical accounting policies;

•the comparative cost of alternative fuels;

•credit risk relating to the risk of loss as a result of non-performance by our counterparties; and

•any other factors listed in the reports we have filed and may file with the SEC.

Should one or more of the risks or uncertainties described above or elsewhere in this Annual Report occur, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results and plans could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We specifically disclaim all responsibility to publicly update any information contained in a forward-looking statement or any forward-looking statement in its entirety and therefore disclaim any resulting liability for potentially related damages.

69
Index to Financial Statements

All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK