PART I

ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Business Overview

We are an innovative media company serving the greater good of our communities. Across platforms, we tell empowering stories, conduct impactful investigations and deliver innovative marketing services. With 62 television stations and four radio stations in 51 U.S. markets, we are the largest owner of top four network affiliates in the top 25 markets among independent station groups, reaching approximately 39% of U.S. television households. Each television station also has a robust digital presence across online, mobile and social platforms, reaching consumers whenever, wherever they are. We have been consistently honored with the industry’s top awards, including Edward R. Murrow, George Polk, Alfred I. DuPont and Emmy Awards. Through TEGNA Marketing Solutions (TMS), our integrated sales and back-end fulfillment operations, we deliver results for advertisers across television, email, social, and Over the Top (OTT) platforms, including Premion, our OTT advertising network.

Over the past several years, we have transformed our company to become a pure-play broadcasting company, adding approximately 40 stations in attractive markets and divesting non-core assets. During 2019 alone, we completed four strategic acquisitions for a total purchase price of $1.5 billion which enhanced our geographic diversity and bolstered our portfolio of Big Four stations while positioning our company to take full advantage of emerging viewing trends. As a result of this strategic evolution, we have increased revenue and cash flow, reduced economic cyclicality, delivered value for shareholders, and continue to be well-positioned to benefit from additional industry consolidation. 

We now operate one of the largest U.S. broadcasting groups and a leading local news and media content provider in the markets we serve. Through the combination of our growing subscription and political revenues and our successful acquisition track record, we are generating substantial free cash flow and shareholder value. 

Operating Structure

We have one operating and reportable segment which generated revenues of $2.3 billion in 2019. The primary sources of our revenues are: 1) advertising & marketing services revenues, which include local and national non-political television advertising, digital marketing services (including Premion), and advertising on stations’ websites and tablet and mobile products; 2) subscription revenues, reflecting fees paid by satellite, cable, OTT (companies that deliver video content to consumers over the Internet) and telecommunications providers to carry our television signals on their systems; 3) political advertising revenues, which are driven by even year election cycles at the local and national level (e.g. 2020, 2018) and particularly in the second half of those years; and 4) other services, such as production of programming and advertising material.

The advertising revenues generated by a station’s local news programs make up a significant part of its total advertising revenues. Advertising pricing is influenced by demand for advertising time. This demand is influenced by a variety of factors, including the size and demographics of the local populations, the concentration of businesses, local economic conditions, and the popularity or ratings of the station’s programming. Almost all national advertising is placed through our centralized internal national sales advertising representatives, while local advertising time is sold by each station’s own local sales force.

Our portfolio of “Big 4” NBC, CBS, ABC and FOX stations operate under long-term network affiliation agreements. Generally, a network provides programs to its affiliated television stations and the network sells commercial advertising for certain of the available advertising spots within the network programs, while our television stations sell the remaining available commercial advertising spots. Our television stations also produce local programming such as news, sports, and entertainment.

Broadcast affiliates and their network partners continue to have the broadest appeal in terms of household viewership, viewing time and audience reach. The overall reach of events such as the Olympics and NFL Football, along with our extensive local news and non-news programming, continues to surpass the reach in viewership of individual cable channels. Our ratings and reach are driven by the quality of programs we and our network partners produce and by the strong local connections we have to our communities, which gives us a unique position among the numerous program choices viewers have, regardless of platform.

3

As illustrated in the table below, our business continues to evolve toward growing stable and profitable revenue streams. As a result of growing importance of even-year political advertising on our results, management increasingly looks at revenue trends over two-year periods. High margin-subscription and political revenues account for approximately half of our total two-year revenue, a trend that began in 2019, and are expected to comprise a larger percentage on a rolling two-year cycle thereafter.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Strategy 

Our highly qualified Board of Directors is actively engaged and regularly reviews, guides and oversees the development and implementation of our long-term strategic plan. Our Board of Directors and management team are committed to executing on the following five-pillar strategy designed to create shareholder value.

1.Continue to be a best-in-class operator; 

2.Aggressive yet disciplined pursuit of accretive M&A opportunities; 

3.Pursuing growth opportunities through innovation and adjacent businesses; 

4.Maintaining a strong balance sheet; and 

5.Commitment to free cash flow generation and a balanced capital allocation process. 

1. Continue to be a best-in-class operator:

Grow subscription revenue. Subscription revenue has steadily increased in the last several years, better reflecting the value of the content that our business provides. Pursuant to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules, every three years a local television station must elect to either (1) require cable and/or direct broadcast satellite operators to carry the station’s signal or (2) require such cable and satellite operators to negotiate retransmission consent agreements to secure carriage. At present, we have retransmission consent agreements with almost all cable operators, telecommunications and satellite providers in our television stations’ markets for carriage of those stations. During 2019, we renewed our multi-year distribution agreements with several major cable providers starting a significant repricing cycle. We repriced approximately 50% of our paid subscribers in the fourth quarter of 2019 and expect to reprice an additional 35% during 2020. These renewed agreements provide additional predictability into the expected future growth of our subscription revenues. 

Our scale and strength in local content have contributed to our ability to grow our subscription revenue beyond traditional multichannel video programming distributors (MVPDs) into the growing OTT space. Moving our content onto OTT platforms allows us to reach an additional demographic of newer viewers that consume content online rather than via traditional television platforms, enabling us to expand our subscription revenues and deliver advertising products to a broader viewing audience.

We have OTT distribution deals with major network partners and streaming services such as Hulu, YouTube TV and Direct TV Now, permitting them to carry our stations’ content. Because our stations serve large markets that are pivotal to the success of companies offering platforms in the OTT space, our distribution agreements with these partners and streaming services contain financial terms similar to those in our more traditional distribution agreements with cable and satellite operators, making us economically agnostic to consumer platform choices.

Affiliation agreements. During 2019, we also successfully executed multi-year renewals of our principal affiliation agreements with CBS (extended through 2022), ABC (extended through 2023), and Fox (extended through 2022). Today, TEGNA is the largest independent owner of NBC affiliated stations and second largest owner of CBS affiliated stations. 

2020 Political cycle. As a result of our 2019 acquisitions (discussed below), we have strategically expanded our portfolio to include additional key political markets and are primed to benefit from expected record political advertising in 2020. Our broadcasting assets, paired with Premion, offer political campaigns the ability to reach voters across the country, not just in our TEGNA television markets.

Improve the value we bring to advertisers. We provide our clients with data-driven integrated marketing services, using a holistic approach that puts their advertising dollars to work in the channels that make the most sense for them, regardless of the platform. During 2019, we continued to expand market share in our marketing services business through our sales transformation efforts, including innovations like our centralized 360-degree marketing services agency, our centralized pricing platform, and a well-trained, solutions-oriented salesforce.

4

Cost initiatives. We have implemented several significant cost-reduction initiatives and are in the process of implementing additional such initiatives. These efforts include implementation of shared service support centers for all back-office support functions, completion of the company-wide financial systems consolidation in the second quarter 2020, and automation of sales support processes as well as other key traffic monitoring functions. In addition, during 2019, through TEGNA Marketing Solutions, we created an integrated in-house national sales force, which embraces automation for the more commoditized side of our business and creating a capability for our national clients. We are also pursuing new technology initiatives that make television advertising easier to buy and are using data analytics to provide insights on consumer traffic and purchasing decisions to advertisers. 

2. Aggressive yet disciplined pursuit of accretive M&A opportunities:

Our strong balance sheet and cash flow generation enables us to opportunistically grow the business through accretive acquisitions. Since 2013, we have acquired approximately 40 stations and transformed into a pure-play broadcast company with a robust portfolio. During 2019, we identified and executed on significant M&A opportunities with clear and achievable synergies, closing on four important acquisitions encompassing 15 television stations, two radio stations and two multicast networks (which are summarized below). We now own 62 television stations in 51 markets with a concentration of Big Four stations in large, demographically growing markets, and an emphasis on important political markets. 

The television stations acquired during 2019 are listed in the table below, and a summary of each acquisition follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Nexstar Stations. On September 19, 2019, we completed our acquisition of 11 local television stations in eight markets, including eight Big Four affiliates, from Nexstar Media Group (the Nexstar Stations). These stations were divested by Nexstar Media Group in connection with its acquisition of Tribune Media Company. The estimated purchase price for the Nexstar Stations was $769.1 million comprised of a base purchase price of $740.0 million and estimated working capital of $29.1 million. The acquisition of the Nexstar Stations adds complementary markets to our existing portfolio of top network affiliates, including four affiliates in presidential election battleground states.

•Dispatch Stations. On August 8, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Dispatch Broadcast Group’s #1 rated stations in Indianapolis, Indiana (NBC affiliate WTHR) and Columbus, Ohio (CBS affiliate WBNS). We also acquired WBNS radio (1460 AM and 97.1 FM), the leader in sports radio in Central Ohio (collectively the Dispatch Stations). The purchase price for the Dispatch Stations was $560.5 million comprised of a base purchase price of $535.0 million and working capital and cash acquired of $25.5 million. The acquisition of the Dispatch Stations helps to expand our portfolio of big four affiliates in large markets. 

•Justice and Quest Multicast Networks. On June 18, 2019, we completed the acquisition of the remaining approximately 85% interest that we did not previously own in the multicast networks Justice Network and Quest from Cooper Media. Justice and Quest are two leading multicast networks that offer unique ad-supported programming. Justice Network’s content is focused on true-crime genre, while Quest features factual-entertainment programs such as science, history, and adventure-reality series. Cash paid for this acquisition was $77.1 million (which included $4.6 million for working capital paid at closing).

•Gray Stations. On January 2, 2019, we completed our acquisition of WTOL, the CBS affiliate in Toledo, OH, and KWES, the NBC affiliate in Midland-Odessa, TX from Gray Television, Inc. (collectively the Gray Stations). The final purchase price was $109.9 million, which includes working capital of $4.9 million. WTOL and KWES are strong local media brands in key markets, and they further expand our station portfolio of top 4 affiliates.

We refer to these four acquisitions collectively as the “Recent Acquisitions”. 

5

3. Pursuing growth opportunities through innovation and adjacent businesses:

Continue to innovate in our content offerings to our consumers. Our trusted, local content is the driver of our success across all distribution channels and is a key ingredient that powers our current and future revenues. Our scale has allowed us to invest in comprehensive content and digital innovation initiatives. Our focus on data-driven editorial processes, new storytelling formats, and unique visual presentations across all our platforms are helping us to advance our goal of making our content the consumers’ first choice, no matter the platform.

In 2019, we continued significant efforts to embrace change, transform our content and connect with audiences in unique and powerful ways. Our culture encourages and embraces bold thinking and ideas from across the company. We are creating unique, live and original content in news and non-news time periods to meet changing viewer habits. In an on-demand OTT world, live, locally-relevant content is becoming increasingly important, and we are acting on that trend. We have continued to make wholesale transformations of our local news operations. We have invested in true digital-first newsrooms, leveraging analytics to better serve audiences and clients on-air and via mobile devices.

We are recognized nationally for our innovation in reinventing local journalism in the digital age. Over the past year, we have conducted digital-first investigations that shined a light on important issues, holding the powerful accountable and helping drive change and results for those without a voice. For example, KING 5 in Seattle won a prestigious Peabody award for their 2018 multipart “Back of the Class” investigative series, which exposed Washington State’s tragic failures in meeting the needs of special education students. KING 5 continued their reporting into 2019, including highlighting how physically restraining and isolating special education students in closet-like rooms can lead to severe trauma and violate civil rights. Thanks to KING 5’s reporting shedding light on this critical issue, in 2019 the Washington legislature increased special education funding by $155 million.

Our most innovative ideas frequently come from our employees who take active part in generating new ideas and pilots through a recurring, structured process. This has resulted in the creation of new digital-first episodic investigations; multiplatform news fact-checking segments like “Verify”; unique local news programs; and the launch in 2019 of an in-house digital production and distribution studio, VAULT Studios. VAULT Studios leverages our stations’ robust archives of investigative stories and has quickly gained a reputation as a premier podcast studio for fans of true crime. Several VAULT Studios productions have been among the top 10 true crime podcasts on the Apple Podcasts app in 2019. 

We produce daily live, multi-platform syndicated programs. These programs are produced at our local stations, reducing cost while allowing us to quickly respond to local needs and tastes in content. “Daily Blast LIVE,” a 30-minute live news and entertainment show produced out of KUSA in Denver, is now in its third year. It continues to achieve strong year-over-year audience ratings growth with distribution that now spans 65 markets, including 16 of the top 25, and 20 non-TEGNA markets. “Sister Circle,” a live daily talk show for African American women, is also in its third year. The show is produced at WXIA in Atlanta and reaches approximately 60% of U.S. television households through its distribution across 16 TEGNA markets and on TV One and Cleo Network, two cable networks that offer a broad range of programming for a diverse audience of adult viewers. 

Increase engagement across all platforms. As the consumption of content on digital platforms increases, we have continued to make investments in developing new ways of connecting with local audiences and enhancing our digital capabilities. In 2019, this included initiatives focused on diversifying our web traffic sources, improving our digital workflow, redesigning stations’ mobile apps and deploying industry-first innovations across our newsrooms.

•Diversifying Audience Traffic Sources: Platforms control an increasing amount of consumer attention, and we have placed an emphasis on diversifying our digital traffic sources and building direct relationships with our audience. In 2019, this included launching new mobile applications for our stations, improving our traffic via search engines and increasing monetizable video views across platforms. As a result of these efforts, our digital properties have seen improvements in 2019 of +42% in Visitors and +63% in video views compared to the prior year. 

•Improving Digital Workflows: In 2018, we developed and began deployment of a new content management system (CMS) across all of our markets. In 2019, the new CMS was fully deployed, allowing stations to integrate data into the story creation process, making it easier and faster to publish videos and enabling us to optimize our content for the wide variety of distribution platforms. Importantly, the new platform also allows us to continually iterate on our capabilities as the digital ecosystem evolves, while reducing our ongoing operating expenses.

Late in 2016, we launched the industry’s first OTT local advertising network, Premion, a one-stop-shop that allows local, regional and national customers to place advertising on long-form programs across a broad array of services such as streaming devices, smart TVs and web browsers. Now in its third year of operations, Premion is a highly desirable buy for advertisers trying to reach so-called cord cutters and is helping us expand our revenue base and giving us access to new markets. Our large, local salesforce is leveraging relationships with local and regional advertisers to sell Premion inventory. Premion continues to deliver strong revenue growth achieving double digit growth rates, with revenue of more than $100 million in 2019.

6

On February 26, 2020, we announced a new strategic partnership with Gray Television (Gray) in which Gray will acquire a minority ownership interest in Premion. As part of this new partnership, Gray will serve as a reseller of Premion’s services across all of Gray’s 93 television markets. 

Invest in new growth initiatives. We are further diversifying our revenue base by investing in new business models that leverage our strong assets and scale.

•Intelligent Ad Automation. Premion has been our first investment in intelligent ad automation. Premion has partnered with MadHive (one of our strategic equity investments) to create a technology platform to aggregate inventory from OTT providers and then resell the inventory to local and regional advertisers leveraging our salesforce.

In addition to Premion, we are a member of the Television Interfaces Practices (TIP) consortium of broadcasters driving standardization and interconnectivity of the automation of national spot advertising. Our centralized pricing resources are enabling stations to more effectively price their advertising inventory to maximize share. New attribution technologies are enabling our advertisers to better understand the impact their advertising has on consumer traffic and purchasing. The creation in 2019 of a new, integrated in-house national salesforce has evolved the way we serve our national customers and enables us to expand those relationships.

•Performance Marketing. We are a leading provider of digital marketing services for advertisers. We continued to evolve our product offerings in 2019, improving profitability by focusing our resources on our largest, most important clients. We have expanded our investments in attribution across linear television and OTT, more effectively demonstrating the value all our advertising products bring to our clients.

•NextGen TV (ATSC 3.0). In 2017, the FCC began the process of issuing rules that would permit television stations to broadcast in the new ATSC 3.0 broadcast transmissions standard, which will allow broadcasters to enhance their existing transmission services with a new standardized system that will allow us to compete directly with Internet protocols. This new standard will allow us to support higher 4K high dynamic range resolution, higher frame rate, mobile, second screen experiences, 3D audio, virtual reality, advanced advertising and other exciting enhancements to the viewing experience. The technology enables encryption and content protection that will allow broadcasters for the first time to protect their signal and employ paywalls. During 2018 and 2019, we worked with other broadcasters as part of the Pearl consortium’s ongoing pilot testing of the new standard in Phoenix, Arizona. We expect to participate in the NextGen TV transition in multiple TEGNA markets in 2020. 

4. Maintaining a strong balance sheet:

Our balance sheet combined with our strong, accelerating and dependable cash flows provide us the ability to pursue the path that offers the most attractive return on capital at any given point in time. We have a broad set of capital deployment opportunities, including retiring debt to create additional future flexibility; investing in original, relevant and engaging content; investing in growth businesses like Premion; and pursuing value accretive acquisition-related growth. 

For example, during 2019 and in January 2020 we completed significant strategic financing actions that have positioned us to continue to pursue strategic acquisition opportunities that may develop in our sector, invest in new content and revenue initiatives, and grow revenue in fiscal year 2020. First, on August 15, 2019, we entered into an amendment of our Amended and Restated Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Agreement that extended the letter of credit commitments until August 15, 2024 and increased our permitted total leverage ratios. In addition, on September 13, 2019 and January 9, 2020, we completed two $1 billion debt refinancings, taking advantage of low rates to reduce future interest expense including approximately $10 million in 2020, and improve our financial flexibility. 

We will continue to review all opportunities in a disciplined manner, both strategically and financially. In the near-term, our priorities continue to be maintaining a strong balance sheet, enabling organic growth, acquiring attractively priced strategic assets and returning capital to shareholders in the form of dividends.

5. Commitment to free cash flow generation and a balanced capital allocation process:

Our operations have historically generated strong cash flow which, along with availability under our existing $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, are sufficient to fund our capital expenditures, interest expense, dividends, investments in new products and initiatives, as well as to fund acquisitions, including the Recent Acquisitions discussed above. 

Our ability to generate operating cash flow and the recent completion of the two debt refinancings have enabled us to continue to de-lever following the Recent Acquisitions while continuing to pay a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share. We plan to de-lever to approximately 4.0x of Adjusted EBITDA (see definition of this non-GAAP financial metric in Item 7) by year-end 2020, enabling TEGNA to continue to play a key role as an industry consolidator in the years ahead.

In addition, we have effectively deployed capital through divestitures, which help fund our growth. Our Board and management team continually assess the financial productivity of assets within our portfolio in the context of our strategy and 

7

operations. As a result, we have realized proceeds of approximately $300 million from the sale of non-core assets since 2017. These proceeds, together with cash distributions received from investments, have helped to provide a funding source for both strategic acquisitions and investments in organic growth drivers such as Premion. 

Total shareholder return 

As a result of executing on our five-pillar strategy, we have generated total shareholder return of 23.6% over the last two years. The below table shows total TEGNA shareholder return from January 1, 2018 (the beginning of our first full year as a pure-play broadcasting company) through December 31, 2019, compared to our Peer Group and S&P 500 Index. 

 Note: The Peer Group is defined as E.W. Scripps Company, Gray Television Inc., Meredith Corp., Nexstar Media Group, Inc., and Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Competition 

The proliferation of high-speed broadband to the home and phone has significantly increased competition in the video marketplace in the last decade. Today, mobile broadband covers 99% of the U.S., and approximately 87% of Americans own devices that can access mobile broadband with numbers continuing to grow. Fixed, wired broadband to the home is now estimated at 82%, and also growing.

With the rise of 4G and unlimited data plans, every screen or mobile phone is now television. These video consumption patterns are no longer restricted to younger consumers. With the onset of ubiquitous high-speed Internet service, there’s been an explosion of platforms and applications with video advertising capabilities that consumers have adopted. These include large players like YouTube and Facebook, and a long tail of mobile applications and services that consumers value with more being added every week. 

Our company strives to capture as large a viewing audience as possible for each of our broadcast stations, as the number of viewers who watch our stations in each Designated Market Area (DMA) has a direct impact on our ability to maximize both of our major revenue streams: advertising revenue and retransmission consent fees. 

8

As noted above, we compete for audience share as part of an increasingly varied and competitive media landscape. We compete for advertising revenue with other platforms for television advertising media, including other broadcast stations and cable providers. We also compete against both traditional and new forms of media that offer paid advertising, including radio, newspapers, magazines, direct mail, online video, and social media. Major competitors in this space include cable providers Comcast and Charter, as well as Internet platforms Google, Facebook, and YouTube. Advertisements on these digital platforms look like traditional television ads and compete with over-the-air broadcast ads in the local ad market. 

With respect to retransmission consent fees, we compete to capture a share of the total amount MVPDs are willing to pay for the rights to distribute linear TV content to their subscribers. The larger our audience share, the more appealing our programming is to the MVPDs and the more they will be willing to pay for the right to distribute it. We compete for this revenue against other broadcast stations and cable networks.

The advertising industry is dynamic and rapidly evolving. Through their websites, our stations compete in the local electronic media space, which includes the Internet or Internet-enabled devices, handheld wireless devices such as mobile phones and tablets, social media platforms, digital spectrum opportunities and OTT video services. In this space, we compete for audience and advertising revenue against other local media companies, Internet advertising giants such as Google and Facebook, as well as the fragmented landscape of digital ad agencies. The technology that enables consumers to receive news and information continues to evolve as does our digital strategy.

Regulation 

Our television stations are operated under the authority of the FCC, the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (Communications Act), and the rules and policies of the FCC (FCC regulations). As a result, our television stations are subject to a variety of obligations, such as restrictions on the broadcast of material deemed “indecent” or “profane,” requirements to provide or pass through closed captioning for most programming, rules requiring the public disclosure of certain information about our stations’ operations, and the obligation to offer programming responsive to the needs and interests of our stations’ communities. The FCC may alter or add to these requirements, and any such changes may affect the performance of our business. Certain significant elements of the FCC’s current regulatory framework for broadcast television are described in further detail below.

Licensing. Television broadcast licenses generally are granted for eight-year periods. They are renewable upon application to the FCC and usually are renewed except in rare cases in which a petition to deny, a complaint or an adverse finding as to the licensee’s qualifications results in loss of the license. We believe that our stations operate in substantial compliance with the Communications Act and FCC regulations.

Local Broadcast Ownership Restriction. FCC regulations limit the concentration of broadcasting control and regulate network and local programming practices. In November 2017, the FCC adopted an order altering its regulations governing media ownership, generally making these regulations less restrictive. For example, the order eliminated the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule, which generally prohibited an entity from holding an ownership interest in a daily print newspaper and a full-power broadcast station within the same market, and the television/radio cross-ownership rule, which imposed a number of limits on the ability to own television and radio stations in the same market. The revised rules also made common ownership of two television stations in the same market permissible in more markets so long as at least one of the commonly owned stations is not among the top four rated stations in the market at the time of acquisition, and provided for case-by-case consideration of transactions that would result in new or continued common ownership of two top four rated stations in a market. The FCC’s November 2017 ownership order also eliminated a rule making certain joint advertising sales agreements (JSAs) attributable in calculating compliance with the ownership limits. TEGNA is not currently party to any JSAs.

Various parties - including cable operators and other advocates for more stringent broadcast ownership restrictions - generally opposed the changes adopted in the FCC’s November 2017 order and challenged the order in court. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit vacated and remanded the FCC’s November 2017 order effective as of November 29, 2019, thus reinstating as of that date the FCC’s broadcast ownership rules in effect immediately prior to the November 2017 order. The FCC may appeal the Third Circuit’s decision to the U.S. Supreme Court and/or may adopt revised ownership rules in a new order issued as part of the periodic review the FCC is required by statute to undertake of those rules every four years.

The FCC requires the disclosure of shared services agreements (SSAs) in stations’ online public inspection files, though these agreements generally are not deemed to be attributable ownership interests. The FCC defines SSAs broadly to include a wide range of agreements between separately owned stations, including news sharing agreements and other agreements involving “station-related services.” We are party to an SSA under which our television station in Toledo, WTOL, provides certain services (not including advertising sales) to another Toledo television station owned by a third party. We are party to several other agreements involving the limited sharing of certain equipment and resources; some of these agreements may qualify as SSAs subject to disclosure. 

National Broadcast Ownership Restrictions. The Communications Act includes a national ownership cap for broadcast television stations that prohibits any one person or entity from having, in the aggregate, market reach of more than 39% of all 

9

U.S. television households. FCC regulations permit stations to discount the market reach of stations that broadcast on UHF channels by 50% (the UHF discount). In December 2017, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comments on whether it can or should modify or eliminate the national ownership cap and/or the UHF discount. Our 62 television stations reach approximately 32% of U.S. television households when the UHF discount is applied and approximately 39.0% without the UHF discount. 

Retransmission Consent. As permitted by the Communications Act and FCC rules, we require cable and satellite operators to negotiate retransmission consent agreements to retransmit our stations’ signals. Under the applicable statutory provisions and FCC rules, such negotiations must be conducted in “good faith.” FCC rules also provide stations with certain protections against cable and satellite operators importing duplicating network or syndicated programming broadcast by distant stations. Pay-TV interests and other parties continue to advocate for the FCC to alter or eliminate various aspects of the rules governing retransmission consent negotiations and stations’ exclusivity rights. In addition, some pay-TV operators recently have invested in or otherwise coordinated with an online service called Locast, which asserts that it may lawfully retransmit broadcast television signals over the Internet within the applicable stations’ Nielsen DMAs - without the originating stations’ consent - under a federal Copyright Act provision that permits nonprofit organizations to retransmit broadcast television signals under certain limited circumstances. A lawsuit filed July 31, 2019, by the Big Four television networks, among others, alleges that Locast’s service does not qualify for the claimed exemption and therefore constitutes copyright infringement. That lawsuit is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. If changes to the retransmission consent and/or exclusivity rules were adopted, and/or if services such as Locast were determined to be lawful, such developments could give cable and satellite operators leverage against broadcasters in retransmission consent negotiations and, as a result, adversely impact our revenue from retransmission and advertising.

Post-Incentive Auction Repacking. In April 2017, the FCC announced the completion of a voluntary incentive auction to reallocate certain spectrum currently occupied by television broadcast stations to mobile wireless broadband services, along with a related “repacking” of the television spectrum for remaining television stations. None of our stations relinquished any spectrum rights as a result of the auction. Seventeen of our stations (which includes four of our recently acquired stations) have been or will be repacked to new channels. 

To date, the repacking has not had any material effect on the geographic areas or populations served by our repacked full-power stations’ over-the-air signals, and we do not expect our remaining stations undergoing repacking to experience any such effect. If the repacking did have such an effect, our television stations moving channels could have smaller service areas and/or experience additional interference. The legislation authorizing the incentive auction and repacking established a $1.75 billion fund for reimbursement of costs incurred by stations required to change channels in the repacking. Subsequent legislation enacted on March 23, 2018, appropriated an additional $1 billion for the repacking fund, of which up to $750 million may be made available to repacked full power and Class A television stations and multichannel video programming distributors. Other funds are earmarked to assist affected low power television stations, television translator stations, and FM radio stations, as well for consumer education efforts. 

The repacking process is scheduled to occur over a 39-month period, divided into ten phases ending mid-year 2020. Our full power stations have been assigned to phases two through nine, and a majority of our capital expenditures in connection with the repack occurred in 2018 and 2019. To date, we have incurred approximately $35.6 million in capital expenditures for the spectrum repack project (of which $18.0 million was paid during 2019). We have received FCC reimbursements of approximately $24.4 million through December 31, 2019. 

NextGen TV (ATSC 3.0). In November 2017, the FCC adopted an order authorizing broadcast television stations to voluntarily transition to a new technical standard, called Next Generation TV or ATSC 3.0. The new standard makes possible a variety of benefits for both broadcasters and viewers, including better sound and picture quality, hyper-localized programming including news and weather, enhanced emergency alerts, improved mobile reception, the use of targeted advertising, and more efficient use of spectrum, potentially allowing for more multicast streams to be aired on the same 6 megahertz channel. However, ATSC 3.0 is not backwards compatible with existing television equipment. To ensure continued service to all viewers, the FCC’s order authorizing ATSC 3.0 operations requires full-power television stations that transition to the new standard to continue broadcasting a signal in the existing DTV standard until the FCC phases out the requirement in a future order. The content of this simulcast signal must be substantially similar to the programming aired on the ATSC 3.0 channel for a period of at least five years. Transitioning a station to ATSC 3.0 is voluntary under current FCC rules and may require significant expenditures. We expect to continue rolling out the new standard pending the standard’s completion and in coordination with upgrades related to our spectrum repack transition. To the extent we roll ATSC 3.0 service out to our stations, there can be no guarantee that such service would earn sufficient additional revenues to offset the related expenditures.

10

General Company Information

Our company was founded by Frank E. Gannett and associates in 1906 and was incorporated in 1923. We listed shares publicly for the first time in 1967 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1972. In June 2015, we completed the spin-off of our former publishing businesses, and our company was renamed TEGNA. In addition, in May 2017, we completed the spin-off of our digital automotive business, Cars.com, and in July 2017, we completed the sale of our controlling ownership interest in CareerBuilder, completing our transformation into a pure-play broadcast company. Our headquarters is located at 8350 Broad Street, Suite 2000, Tysons, VA, 22102. Our telephone number is (703) 873-6600 and our website home page is www.tegna.com. We make our website content available for information purposes only. It should not be relied upon for investment purposes, nor is it incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Form 10-K).

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements for our annual stockholders’ meetings and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our investor website, under “Investor Relations” at www.tegna.com as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, copies of our annual reports will be made available, free of charge, upon written request. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including TEGNA Inc.

Employees

As of December 31, 2019, we employed 6,883 full-time and part-time people, all of whom were located in the U.S. The following table summarizes our employee headcount as of the end of 2019 and 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Approximately 10% of our employees are represented by labor unions. They are represented by 27 local bargaining units, most of which are affiliated with one of four international unions under collective bargaining agreements. These agreements conform generally with the pattern of labor agreements in the broadcasting industry. We do not engage in industry-wide or company-wide bargaining.

Environmental Regulatory Matters

We are subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health. U.S. federal environmental legislation that pertains to us include the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (also known as Superfund). We are also regulated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), OSHA and other federal agencies have the authority to write regulations that have an effect on our operations.

In addition to these federal regulations, various states have authority under the federal statutes mentioned above. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements. State and federal authorities may seek fines and penalties for violating these laws and regulations. We believe that we have complied with such proceedings and orders at our stations without any materially adverse effect on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statements of Income or Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 

TEGNA is committed to embedding sustainability throughout our business. We are driven by our strongly held purpose to make a difference in our work, our company and our communities. Our culture is defined by our values of inclusion, integrity, innovation, impact and results. We are focused on advancing progress in the areas of environmental sustainability, social impact, diversity and inclusion and corporate governance practices in order to strengthen communities, and protect and enhance TEGNA’s long-term value.

Our Board’s Public Policy and Regulation Committee guides the Company’s corporate social responsibility and sustainability efforts, and reviews and reports on these efforts on a periodic basis to our Board. For more information, read our most recent Social Responsibility Highlights Report, which can be found at www.tegna.com/corporate-social-responsibility. 

11

Environmental Commitment

We are committed to managing our environmental impact responsibly and protecting the environment through our business practices. We have numerous sustainability practices in place, including energy efficiency programs, reducing our carbon footprint, green building projects and waste reduction. TEGNA’s new headquarters building, completed in 2019, features easy access to public transportation, bike racks, and electric vehicle charging ports. The interior design seeks to reduce energy consumption through features like automated shade and lighting controls for daylight harvesting, occupancy sensors and zoned HVAC, among others. 

The TEGNA Foundation, the charitable foundation sponsored by TEGNA Inc., supports nonprofit activities in communities where we do business and contributes to a variety of charitable causes through its Community Grant Program. Community grants are identified locally by TEGNA stations and include support for community sustainability efforts. 

We undertook several initiatives in 2019 to enhance the physical security at local TEGNA stations. This includes building access improvements at KARE in Minneapolis and KFMB in San Diego, and access control and fencing at KUSA in Denver, and general building and safety and security updates at KING/KONG in Seattle, KTVB in Boise, WCSH in Portland ME, KPNX in Phoenix, KGW in Portland, WKYC in Cleveland, WMAZ in Macon, and WWL in New Orleans.

Social Impact 

TEGNA stations and our journalists take seriously their responsibility to be defenders of the First Amendment and strive to make an impact by being agents of positive change in the markets we serve. TEGNA’s Principles of Ethical Journalism define the behavior that all employees who gather, report, produce and distribute news and information on any platform must adhere to. Our core principles of Truth, Independence, Public Interest, Fair Play, and Integrity form the foundation for all news content produced by TEGNA stations. Reporting by our stations exposes wrongdoing, helps change laws and brings communities together in times of crisis, such as severe weather and natural disasters. In 2019, TEGNA won more national journalism awards than any local broadcaster as a result of our innovative approach to content, impactful investigations and commitment to the communities we serve.

In 2019, TEGNA stations raised more than $100 million in support of diverse local causes that address specific needs in communities. TEGNA Foundation Community Grants totaling $1.5 million were made to address local needs identified by stations. Grants are distributed within the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal framework, with the majority of grants supporting four major categories: Good Health and Well Being, Quality Education, Zero Hunger, and No Poverty. TEGNA also made grants to broadcast industry organizations to support press freedom, journalism ethics, and training for the next generation of diverse journalists. TEGNA employees give back to their local communities by volunteering for and donating to their favorite causes. In 2019, TEGNA Foundation approved more than $500,000 in employee matching gifts. TEGNA employees also take part in mentoring our nation’s veterans through our relationship with American Corporate Partners (ACP), helping veterans transition out of the military and guiding them as they reenter the private sector. TEGNA is committed to building a fully inclusive culture and equity in talent hiring and management decisions. Women comprise 42% of the Board and 47% of our workforce. In addition, 17% of our Board and 25% of our workforce is racially and ethnically diverse. In 2019, and for the third consecutive year, TEGNA was named as a Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality by the Human Rights Campaign. In recognition of our strong commitment to inclusive practices both internally and in marketing campaigns, we received a 2019 Microsoft Advertising Agency Award for Inclusive Culture & Marketing. In 2019, minority and women-owned businesses were awarded 13% of TEGNA’s spending on outside products and services (excluding programming spend and based on analysis of the top 100 vendors).

Corporate Governance 

Our Board and management have instituted strong corporate governance practices to ensure that we operate in ways that support the long-term interests of our shareholders. Important corporate governance practices we follow include:

•All of our directors are elected annually; 

•Eleven of our twelve directors are independent; 

•We have a robust shareholder engagement program;

•We separate the positions of Chairman and CEO and have an independent Chairman;

•We maintain an ongoing board refreshment process, which has resulted in our adding six independent directors during the past five years and the transition of the chairman role during 2018;

•Approximately 94.5% of the votes cast at last year’s annual meeting were in favor of the Company’s Say on Pay proposal.

•Our directors and senior executives are subject to stock ownership guidelines; 

•We do not have a shareholder rights plan (poison pill) in place;

•Our Board has adopted a proxy access by-law provision; and

•Mergers and other business combinations involving the Company generally may be approved by a simple majority vote. 

Additional information regarding our corporate governance practices is included in our Principles of Corporate Governance posted on the Corporate Governance page under the “Investors” menu of our website at www.tegna.com.

12

MARKETS WE SERVE

TELEVISION STATIONS AND AFFILIATED DIGITAL PLATFORM

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

13

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

TEGNA ON THE NET: News and information about us is available on our web site, www.TEGNA.com. In addition to news and other information about us, we provide access through this site to our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them electronically to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Certifications by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are included as exhibits to our SEC reports (including to this Form 10-K). We also provide access on this web site to our Principles of Corporate Governance, the charters of our Audit, Leadership Development and Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and Public Policy and Regulation Committees and other important governance documents and policies, including our Ethics and Inside Trading Policies. Copies of all of these corporate governance documents are available to any shareholder upon written request made to our Secretary at the headquarters address. We will disclose on this web site changes to, or waivers of, our corporate ethics policy.

Certain factors affecting forward-looking statements

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that do not describe historical facts may constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements with respect to the expected financial results of the company. The words “believe,” “expect,” “estimate,” “could,” “should,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “seek,” “anticipate,” “project” and similar expressions, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements contained herein are based on our management’s current beliefs and expectations, but are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, which may cause the company’s actual results or actions to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. Such statements include, but are not limited to: our confidence in the future performance of the company; our ability to execute on our capital allocation, growth and diversification strategies, including potential mergers and acquisitions; the realization of expected regulatory changes and our ability to monetize new content and grow subscriber revenue. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors and risks that may affect our operations or financial results expressed in this Annual Report are discussed in Item “1A. Risk Factors”. 

14

Given these uncertainties, forward-looking statements should not be relied on in making investment decisions. The forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K speak only as of the date of its filing. Except where required by applicable law, we expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K to reflect subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in expectations, or the estimates and assumptions associated with them. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the federal securities laws.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS