Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

As of February 1, 2020, our exposure to market risk was primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations, some of which are at a London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). Our interest rate exposure is primarily due to differences between our floating rate debt obligations compared to our floating rate short-term investments. As of February 1, 2020, our floating rate short-term investments exceeded our floating rate debt by approximately $300 million. Based on our balance sheet position as of February 1, 2020, the annualized effect of a 0.1 percentage point increase in floating interest rates on our floating rate debt obligations, net of our floating rate short-term investments, would not be significant. In general, we expect our floating rate debt to exceed our floating rate short-term investments over time, but that may vary in different interest rate environments. See further description of our debt and derivative instruments in Notes 15 and 16 to the Financial Statements.

In 2017, the United Kingdom's Financial Conduct Authority announced the intent to phase out LIBOR by the end of 2021. As a result, we may amend our contracts that use LIBOR as a benchmark, but do not expect these changes will have a material impact on our financial statements, liquidity and access to capital markets. 

We record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. Based on our balance sheet position as of February 1, 2020, the annualized effect of a 0.5 percentage point decrease in interest rates would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by $6 million.

In addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our qualified defined benefit pension plan. The value of our pension liabilities is inversely related to changes in interest rates. A 1 percentage point decrease to the weighted average discount rate would increase annual expense by $61 million. To protect against declines in interest rates, we hold high-quality, long-duration bonds and interest rate swaps in our pension plan trust. At year-end, we had hedged 60 percent of the interest rate exposure of our plan liabilities.

As more fully described in Note 22 to the Financial Statements, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. We control the risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that substantially offset our economic exposure to the returns on these plans.

There have been no other material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year.

TARGET CORPORATION2019 Form 10-K29

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSTable of Contents

INDEXIndex to Financial Statements

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data