Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable and fixed rate debt and (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our foreign operations. 

Interest Rate Risk. As of December 31, 2019, we had an aggregate of $3.5 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates, comprised of borrowings under the ABL, accounts receivable securitization and term loan facilities. See note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for the amounts outstanding, and the interest rates thereon, as of December 31, 2019 under these facilities. As of December 31, 2019, based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, our annual after-tax earnings would decrease by approximately $27 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt.

The amount of variable rate indebtedness outstanding may fluctuate significantly. For additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements.

At December 31, 2019, we had an aggregate of $7.9 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at fixed rates. A one percentage point decrease in market interest rates as of December 31, 2019 would increase the fair value of our fixed rate indebtedness by approximately six percent. For additional information concerning the fair value and terms of our fixed rate debt, see note 11 (see “Fair Value of Financial Instruments”) and note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Currency Exchange Risk. We operate in the U.S., Canada and Europe. As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in July 2018, we completed the acquisition of BakerCorp, which allowed for our entry into select European markets. Our presence in Europe is limited, and most of our foreign revenue and income is from Canada. During the year ended December 31, 2019, our foreign subsidiaries accounted for $817, or 9 percent, of our total revenue of $9.351 billion, and $62, or 4 percent, of our total pretax income of $1.514 billion. Based on the size of our foreign operations relative to the Company as a whole, we do not believe that a 10 percent change in exchange rates would have a material impact on our earnings. We do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes.

 39
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data