ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report and also with RISK FACTORS in Item 1A of this report. This discussion also includes forward-looking statements. Refer to CAUTIONARY INFORMATION ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS in Part I of this report for important information about these types of statements. Discussion and analysis regarding 2019 and 2018 is provided below. For discussion and analysis regarding 2017, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 as previously filed with the SEC.

OVERVIEW

Cimarex is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. Our operations are entirely located in the United States, mainly in Texas, New Mexico, and Oklahoma. Currently our operations are focused in two main areas: the Permian Basin and the Mid-Continent. Our Permian Basin region encompasses west Texas and southeast New Mexico. Our Mid-Continent region consists of Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle.

Our principal business objective is to increase shareholder value through the profitable long-term growth of our proved reserves and production while seeking to minimize our impact on the communities in which we operate for the long-term. Our strategy centers on maximizing cash flow from producing properties so that we can reinvest in exploration and development opportunities and provide cash returns to shareholders through dividends. We consider merger and acquisition opportunities that enhance our competitive position and we occasionally divest non-strategic assets.

On March 1, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Resolute Energy Corporation (“Resolute”), an independent oil and gas company focused on the acquisition and development of unconventional oil and gas properties in the Delaware Basin area of the Permian Basin of west Texas. The principal factors considered by management in making 

38
this acquisition included: (i) our expectation that Resolute’s assets’ attractive returns are competitive with those in our existing portfolio, (ii) the opportunity to apply our experience and learnings from already operating in this area to generating productivity gains from Resolute’s properties, (iii) the ability to increase our acreage position in the Delaware Basin, and (iv) the expectation that the acquisition will be financially accretive. The acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred totaled $820.3 million, which consisted of cash, common stock, and preferred stock (see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the acquisition).

We believe that detailed technical analysis, operational focus, and a disciplined capital investment process mitigate risk and position us to continue to achieve profitable increases in proved reserves and production. Our drilling inventory and limited long-term commitments provide the flexibility to respond quickly to industry volatility. Our investments are generally funded with cash flow provided by operating activities together with cash on hand, bank borrowings, sales of non-strategic assets, and, from time to time, public financing based on our monitoring of capital markets and our balance sheet.

Market Conditions

The oil and gas industry is cyclical and commodity prices can fluctuate significantly. We expect this volatility to persist. Commodity prices are affected by many factors outside of our control, including changes in market supply and demand, inventory storage levels, weather conditions, and other factors. Local market prices for oil and gas can be impacted by pipeline capacity constraints limiting takeaway and increasing basis differentials. 

As demonstrated in the table below, our company-wide average realized prices for 2019 as compared to 2018 have declined for all products. In the case of oil sales, these decreases result from a combination of declining NYMEX prices, partially offset by improving differentials. In the case of gas sales, these decreases are driven by declining NYMEX prices and widening differentials.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

39
The average price differentials that we realized in our two primary areas of operation are shown in the table below for the periods indicated. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Pipeline expansion projects in the Permian Basin are expected to ease capacity constraints as they come online over the next few years, which is reflected in the current futures markets that show narrowing differentials. However, if pipeline constraints remain because expansion projects are delayed or canceled, production increases faster than capacity increases, pipeline disruptions, or other reasons, higher differentials will persist or potentially worsen. Our revenue, profitability, and future growth are highly dependent on the prices we receive for our oil and gas production and can be adversely affected by realized price decreases. See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues below for further information regarding our realized commodity prices.

40
Summary of Operating and Financial Results for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018

•Completed the acquisition of Resolute Energy Corporation. Resolute’s results are included in our financial statements since the March 1, 2019 closing date.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Further discussion of these results is provided below. 

Proved Reserves

Our proved reserves by region at December 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

41
Year-end 2019 proved reserves increased approximately 5% to 619.6 MMBOE, compared to 591.2 MMBOE at year-end 2018. Proved gas reserves were 1.53 Tcf, proved oil reserves were 169.8 MMBbls, and proved NGL reserves were 194.5 MMBbls. Reserves in the Permian Basin accounted for 68% of our total proved reserves with nearly all of the remainder in our Mid-Continent region. See SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES (UNAUDITED) in Item 8 for a more detailed discussion regarding year-over-year changes in our proved reserves.

The process of estimating quantities of oil, gas, and NGL reserves is complex. Significant decisions are required in the evaluation of all available geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data. Although every reasonable effort is made to ensure that our reserve estimates represent the most accurate assessments possible, subjective decisions and available data for our various fields make these estimates generally less precise than other estimates included in financial statement disclosures. See Proved Reserves Estimation Procedures in Items 1 and 2 for a discussion of our reserve estimation process and Item 1A RISK FACTORS, which includes a discussion of factors that affect our proved reserves estimates.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Revenues

Our revenues are derived from sales of our oil, gas, and NGL production. Increases or decreases in our revenues, profitability, and future production growth are highly dependent on the commodity prices we receive. Prices are market driven and we expect that future prices will continue to fluctuate due to supply and demand factors, availability of transportation, seasonality, geopolitical, and economic factors. See Item 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK for more information regarding the sensitivity of our revenues to price fluctuations. 

Production volumes were higher for all products during the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, while realized prices were lower. Our acquisition of Resolute and ongoing completion of new wells have increased our volumes. Lower market prices, which are out of our control, have negatively impacted our realized prices. The increase in production volumes, as well as the increase in our fourth quarter 2019 realized oil prices due to narrowing basis differentials, was enough to overcome the lower annual realized prices, particularly gas and NGL prices, to cause our overall production revenues to increase by $24.3 million, or 1%, from prior year. The following table shows our production revenues for 2019 and 2018 as well as the change in revenues due to changes in prices and volumes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

42
The table below presents our production volumes by commodity, our average realized commodity prices, and certain major U.S. index prices. The sale of our Permian Basin oil production is typically tied to the WTI Midland benchmark price and the sale of our Mid-Continent oil production is typically tied to the WTI Cushing benchmark price. During 2019 and 2018, 84% and 77%, respectively, of our oil production was in the Permian Basin with the majority of the remainder in the Mid-Continent region. Our realized prices do not include settlements of commodity derivative contracts.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our 2019 daily production volumes were 278.5 MBOE, a 25% increase from 2018. This increase is the result of the Resolute acquisition as well as drilling and completion activity during 2019. See Production Volumes, Prices, and Costs and Exploration and Development Overview in Items 1 and 2 of this report for production information by region and a discussion of our drilling activities.

43
Other Revenues

We transport, process, and market some third-party gas that is associated with our equity gas. We market and sell gas for other working interest owners under short term agreements and may earn a fee for such services. The table below reflects revenues from third-party gas gathering and processing and our net marketing margin for marketing third-party gas.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fluctuations in revenues from gas gathering and gas marketing activities are a function of increases and decreases in volumes, commodity prices, and gathering rate charges.

Operating Costs and Expenses

Costs associated with producing oil and gas are substantial. Among other factors, some of these costs vary with commodity prices, some trend with the volume of production, some are a function of the number of wells we own, some depend on the prices charged by service companies, and some fluctuate based on a combination of the foregoing. 

Total operating costs and expenses of $2.48 billion in 2019 were 92% higher than the $1.29 billion incurred in 2018. The primary reasons for the increase were : (i) the $618.7 million ceiling test impairment incurred in 2019, (ii) the $291.7 million increase in depreciation, depletion, and amortization, and (iii) the $162.8 million increase in losses on derivative instruments. The following table shows our operating costs and expenses for the years indicated and a discussion of year-over-year differences follows.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 ________________________________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

44
Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties

We use the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas operations. Under this method, we are required to perform quarterly ceiling test calculations to test our oil and gas properties for possible impairment. If the net capitalized cost of our oil and gas properties, as adjusted for income taxes, exceeds the ceiling limitation, the excess is charged to expense. The ceiling limitation is equal to the sum of: (i) the present value discounted at 10% of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves, (ii) the cost of properties not being amortized, and (iii) the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproven properties included in the costs being amortized, as adjusted for income taxes. We currently do not have any unproven properties that are being amortized. Estimated future net revenues are determined based on trailing twelve-month average commodity prices and estimated proved reserve quantities, operating costs, and capital expenditures.

The quarterly ceiling test is primarily impacted by commodity prices, changes in estimated reserve quantities, reserves produced, overall exploration and development costs, depletion expense, and deferred taxes. If pricing conditions decline, or if there is a negative impact on one or more of the other components of the calculation, we may incur a full cost ceiling test impairment. The calculated ceiling limitation is not intended to be indicative of the fair market value of our proved reserves or future results. Impairment charges do not affect cash flow from operating activities, but do adversely affect our net income and various components of our balance sheet. Any impairment of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date. 

During 2019, we recognized a ceiling test impairment of $618.7 million. The impairment resulted primarily from the impact of decreases in the 12-month average trailing prices for oil, natural gas, and NGLs as well as significant basis differentials utilized in determining the estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves. It is likely that we will incur another ceiling test impairment in the first quarter 2020 and we may recognize additional ceiling test impairments in the future. 

Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization

Depletion of our producing properties is computed using the units-of-production method. The economic life of each producing well depends upon the estimated proved reserves for that well, which in turn depend upon the assumed realized sales price for future production. Therefore, fluctuations in oil and gas prices will impact the level of proved reserves used in the calculation. Higher prices generally have the effect of increasing reserves, which reduces depletion expense. Conversely, lower prices generally have the effect of decreasing reserves, which increases depletion expense. The cost of replacing production also impacts our depletion expense. In addition, changes in estimates of reserve quantities, estimates of operating and future development costs, reclassifications of properties from unproved to proved, and impairments of oil and gas properties will also impact depletion expense. Our net proved properties, production, and reserves have increased during 2019 as compared to 2018 due to our ongoing exploration and development activities as well as due to our acquisition of Resolute. The increase in net properties and production resulted in an overall increase in depletion expense, while the increase in reserves partially offset the increased expense. 

45
Fixed assets consist primarily of gathering and plant facilities, vehicles, airplanes, office furniture, and computer equipment and software. These items are recorded at cost and are depreciated on the straight-line method based on expected lives of the individual assets, which range from 3 to 30 years. Additionally, with the adoption of Topic 842, we depreciate our right-of-use assets, with the depreciation of our finance lease gathering system right-of-use asset being included in our depreciation expense. The increase in depreciation expense during 2019 as compared to 2018 is primarily due to: (i) increased depreciation on our gathering and plant facilities due to ongoing expenditures on this infrastructure and (ii) the depreciation on our gathering system right-of-use asset. Depreciation, depletion, and amortization (“DD&A”) consisted of the following for the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Asset Retirement Obligation

Asset retirement obligation expense is typically primarily comprised of accretion expense. In periods subsequent to the initial measurement of an asset retirement obligation liability at present value, a period-to-period increase in the carrying amount of the liability is recognized as accretion expense, which represents the effect of the passage of time on the amount of the liability. An equivalent amount is added to the carrying amount of the liability. Also included in asset retirement obligation expense are gains and losses recognized on the settlement of asset retirement obligation liabilities. 

Production

Production expense generally consists of costs for labor, equipment, maintenance, saltwater disposal, compression, power, treating, and miscellaneous other costs (lease operating expense). Production expense also includes well workover activity necessary to maintain production from existing wells. Production expense consisted of lease operating expense and workover expense as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On an absolute dollar basis, lease operating expense increased 12%, or $28.2 million, in 2019 compared to 2018. The increases have primarily stemmed from the Resolute acquisition and the addition of new wells as a result of our ongoing exploration and development activities. These increases were partially offset by expense reductions related to the sale of non-strategic properties principally located in Ward County, Texas in August 2018. The majority of the increase in lease operating expense is due to increases in water disposal and electricity costs. On a per BOE basis, lease operating expense decreased 12% as a result of our production growing at a faster rate than increases in our lease operating expense.

Workover expense increased 30%, or $15.5 million, during 2019 as compared to 2018. We had an increased number of workover projects contributing to our workover expense during 2019 as compared to 2018. The following types of expenses have been the primary drivers of increased expense in 2019 as compared to 2018: (i) surface equipment maintenance and repair, (ii) lift, which includes changing lift types or repairing/replacing lift equipment, and (iii) major 

46
well work, which can include replacing tubing, casing repair, cleanouts, and fishing. During 2018, our workover expense was reduced due to receiving approximately $4.0 million in insurance proceeds related to the remediation and repairs incurred as a result of a 2015 flooding event.

Transportation, Processing, and Other Operating

Transportation, processing, and other operating costs principally consist of expenditures to prepare and transport production from the wellhead, including gathering, fuel, compression, and processing costs. Costs vary by region and will fluctuate with increases or decreases in production volumes, contractual fees, and changes in fuel and compression costs.

If the sales contract transfers control of the product at the wellhead, transportation and processing costs are included as a reduction in the revenue we record and are not included in transportation, processing, and other operating costs. The largest sales contract that we acquired with Resolute is structured this way and sales volumes under legacy Cimarex contracts structured this way have increased, therefore, our transportation and processing costs have not increased commensurate with production volume increases. Transportation, processing, and other operating costs in 2019 were 13%, or $26.8 million, higher than in 2018; however, on a per BOE basis, such costs have decreased 10% to $2.34 in 2019 from $2.61 in 2018. 

Gas Gathering and Other

Gas gathering and other includes costs associated with operating our gas gathering and processing infrastructure, including product costs and operating and maintenance expenses. A portion of these costs are reclassified to Transportation, processing, and other expense and Production expense in order to reflect an allocation of the costs incurred to operate our gas gathering facilities as a cost of transporting our equity share of gas produced and operating our wells. Gas gathering and other in 2019 was 18%, or $5.0 million, lower than in 2018. The decrease was primarily due to an increase in compression costs in 2019 offset by a lower amount reclassified to Transportation, processing, and other expense in 2018.

Taxes Other than Income

Taxes other than income consist of production (or severance) taxes, ad valorem taxes, and other taxes. State and local taxing authorities assess these taxes, with production taxes being based on the volume or value of production and ad valorem taxes being based on the value of properties.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Taxes other than income increased 19%, or $23.8 million, in 2019 as compared to 2018. Production taxes make up the majority of our taxes other than income and they increased primarily due to: (i) decreased refunds, which are generally for high-cost gas wells in Texas, but also include marketing cost deduction refunds and (ii) increased production volumes. The largest increase in our taxes other than income was due to increased ad valorem taxes primarily as a result of the Resolute acquisition and increased assessed values. Other taxes other than income are comprised of franchise and consumer use and sales taxes. 

47
General and Administrative

General and administrative (“G&A”) expense consists primarily of salaries and related benefits, office rent, legal and consulting fees, systems costs, and other administrative costs incurred. Our G&A expense is reported net of amounts reimbursed to us by working interest owners of the oil and gas properties we operate and net of amounts capitalized pursuant to the full cost method of accounting. The amount of expense capitalized varies and depends on whether the cost incurred can be directly identified with acquisition, exploration, and development activities. The percentage of gross G&A capitalized was 44% and 48% during 2019 and 2018, respectively. The table below shows our G&A costs. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

G&A expense increased 23%, or $18.0 million, in 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily due to increased employee-related costs such as salaries and wages, other compensation, and benefits. Included in 2019 was $3.1 million of severance expense related to former Resolute employees who performed transition work at Cimarex and were subsequently terminated. During the first quarter of 2020, we accepted volunteers to participate in an early retirement incentive program. As a result of this program, we expect to incur an aggregate of approximately $10.5 million in severance expense over the course of 2020 into early 2021. Going forward, these departures are expected to result in lower employee-related G&A costs.

Stock Compensation

Stock compensation expense consists of non-cash charges resulting from the amortization of the cost of restricted stock and stock option awards, net of amounts capitalized to oil and gas properties. We have recognized stock-based compensation cost as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Periodic stock compensation expense will fluctuate based on the grant date fair value of awards, the number of awards, the requisite service period of the awards, employee forfeitures, and the timing of the awards. The increase in total stock compensation cost in 2019 as compared to 2018 is primarily due to performance stock award forfeitures that occurred during 2018 as well as due to expense on awards granted during the periods more than offsetting the expense on awards that vested during the periods. Our accounting policy is to account for forfeitures in compensation cost when they occur, therefore, all the previously recognized expense on the forfeited award is reversed at the time of forfeiture. During the first quarter of 2020, we accepted volunteers to participate in an early retirement incentive 

48
program, which includes the cash settlement of certain service-based stock awards and accelerated vesting of certain stock option awards. At this time, the effect of this program on future stock compensation expense is not determinable. 

Loss (Gain) on Derivative Instruments, Net

Net gains and losses on our derivative instruments are a function of fluctuations in the underlying commodity index prices as compared to the contracted prices and the monthly cash settlements (if any) of the instruments. We have elected not to designate our derivatives as hedging instruments for accounting purposes and, therefore, we do not apply hedge accounting treatment to our derivative instruments. Consequently, changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments and cash settlements on the instruments are included as a component of operating costs and expenses as either a net gain or loss on derivative instruments. Cash settlements of our contracts are included in cash flows from operating activities in our statements of cash flows. The following table presents the components of Loss (gain) on derivative instruments, net for the years indicated. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our derivative instruments. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other Operating Expense, Net

Other operating expense, net increased $0.8 million in 2019 as compared to 2018. This expense is comprised primarily of litigation settlements, acquisition-related costs, and allowance for doubtful accounts adjustments. Other operating expense, net in 2019 and 2018 included $10.0 million and $14.9 million, respectively in litigation settlements. Other operating expense, net in 2019 and 2018 included $8.4 million and $3.0 million, respectively, in acquisition-related costs incurred to effect the Resolute acquisition. The acquisition-related costs consisted primarily of advisory and legal fees. 

49
Other Income and Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The majority of our interest expense relates to interest on our senior unsecured notes. Also included in interest expense is interest expense on our Credit Facility borrowings, the amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts, and miscellaneous interest expense. See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Long-Term Debt below for further information regarding our debt. The increase in interest expense in 2019 as compared to 2018 is primarily due to (i) the March 8, 2019 issuance of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% senior unsecured notes due March 15, 2029 at 99.862% of par to yield 4.392% per annum, (ii) borrowings on our Credit Facility in 2019 to help fund the Resolute acquisition and thereafter to meet cash requirements as needed (we did not borrow on our Credit Facility in 2018), (iii) miscellaneous interest expense (primarily interest on revenues released from suspense), and (iv) interest expense on our finance lease. The $4.3 million loss on early extinguishment of debt incurred during 2019 was associated with the $600 million of 8.5% senior notes we acquired with Resolute and elected to immediately repay. The maturity date of the Resolute notes was May 1, 2020.

We capitalize interest on non-producing leasehold costs, the in-progress costs of drilling and completing wells, and constructing midstream assets. Capitalized interest will fluctuate based primarily on the amount of costs subject to interest capitalization and based on the rates applicable to borrowings outstanding during the period. The amount of costs subject to interest capitalization was higher in 2019 as compared to 2018, primarily due to the Resolute acquisition. Included in the preliminary purchase price allocation of the Resolute acquisition was non-producing leasehold costs of $1.02 billion. 

Other, net includes interest income of $3.3 million and $11.1 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in interest income in 2019 is primarily due to the cash expended for the Resolute acquisition, which included $325.7 million in cash consideration and the repayment of $870.0 million in principal amount of Resolute’s long-term debt existing at the acquisition date. This decreased our investable cash balance post-acquisition, thus lowering our interest income. Other components of Other, net include miscellaneous income and expense items that vary from period to period, including gain or loss related to the sale or value of oil and gas well equipment and supplies, gain or loss on miscellaneous fixed asset sales, and income and expense associated with other non-operating activities.

50
Income Tax (Benefit) Expense

The components of our provision for income taxes and our combined federal and state effective income tax rates were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our combined federal and state effective tax rates, as shown above, differ from the statutory rate primarily due to state income taxes and non-deductible expenses. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our income taxes. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Overview

We strive to maintain an adequate liquidity level to address volatility and risk. Sources of liquidity include our cash flow from operations, cash on hand, available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility, proceeds from sales of non-strategic assets, and, from time to time, public financings based on our monitoring of capital markets and our balance sheet.

Our liquidity is highly dependent on prices we receive for the oil, gas, and NGLs we produce. Prices we receive are determined by prevailing market conditions and greatly influence our revenue, cash flow, profitability, access to capital, and future rate of growth. See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues above for further information regarding the impact realized prices have had on our 2019 earnings.

We address volatility in commodity prices primarily by maintaining flexibility in our capital investment program. We have a balanced and abundant drilling inventory and limited long-term commitments, which enables us to respond quickly to industry volatility. Based on current economic conditions, our 2020 total capital expenditures are projected to range from $1.25 billion to $1.35 billion. See Capital Expenditures below for information regarding our 2019 capital expenditures and our projected 2020 expenditures.

We periodically use derivative instruments to mitigate volatility in commodity prices. At December 31, 2019, we had derivative contracts covering a portion of our 2020 and 2021 production. Depending on changes in oil and gas futures markets and management’s view of underlying supply and demand trends, we may increase or decrease our derivative positions from current levels. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our derivative instruments.

Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2019 were $94.7 million. At December 31, 2019, our long-term debt consisted of $2.00 billion of senior unsecured notes, with $750 million 4.375% notes due in 2024, $750 million 3.90% notes due in 2027, and $500 million 4.375% due in 2029. At December 31, 2019, we had no borrowings and $2.5 million in letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility, leaving an unused borrowing availability of $1.248 billion. See Long-Term Debt below for more information regarding our debt.

51
Our debt to total capitalization ratio at December 31, 2019 was 37%, up from 31% at December 31, 2018. This ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of (i) the principal amount of long-term debt and (ii) redeemable preferred stock by the sum of (i) the principal amount of long-term debt, (ii) redeemable preferred stock, and (iii) total stockholders’ equity, with all numbers coming directly from the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Management uses this ratio as one indicator of our financial condition and believes professional research analysts and rating agencies use this ratio for this purpose and to compare our financial condition to other companies’ financial conditions.

We may, from time to time, seek to repurchase our outstanding redeemable preferred stock through cash repurchases and/or exchanges for equity securities, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. Such activities, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our redeemable preferred stock.

We expect our operating cash flow and other capital resources to be adequate to meet our needs for planned capital expenditures, working capital, debt service, and dividends declared for the next twelve months.

Analysis of Cash Flow Changes

The following table presents the totals of the major cash flow classification categories from our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash provided by operating activities in 2019 was $1.34 billion, down $207.0 million, or 13%, from $1.55 billion in 2018. The decrease resulted primarily from an increased investment in working capital, primarily related to the repayment of liabilities assumed from Resolute, and increased operating expenses in 2019 as compared to 2018. Partially offsetting this decrease in operating cash flows was an increase due to increased revenues, primarily due to increased production volumes, and a decrease in cash outflows for settlements of derivative instruments. See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS above for more information regarding the changes in revenue and operating expenses.

Net cash used by investing activities was $1.58 billion and $1.09 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The majority of our cash flows used by investing activities are for oil and gas capital expenditures, which, as reflected in the statements of cash flows, were $1.25 billion and $1.57 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Net cash used by investing activities in 2019 included the $325.7 million cash portion of the consideration paid for the Resolute acquisition, net of the $41.2 million in cash acquired with Resolute. Net cash used by investing activities in 2018 included $534.6 million in net cash proceeds from the sale of oil and gas properties principally located in Ward County, Texas. Net cash proceeds from other asset sales in 2019 and 2018 totaled $30.0 million and $49.9 million, respectively. These asset sales are primarily for the divestiture of non-strategic oil and gas properties. Our other capital expenditures, which are primarily for our midstream assets, were $73.7 million and $103.5 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Net cash used by financing activities was $472.0 million and $65.2 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. During 2019, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% senior unsecured notes due March 15, 2029 at 99.862% of par for proceeds of $499.3 million, paying $4.6 million in underwriting fees and financing costs. Additionally, we borrowed and repaid an aggregate of $2.12 billion on our credit facility during 2019 to assist in funding the Resolute acquisition and thereafter to meet cash requirements as needed. In connection with the acquisition of Resolute, we assumed $870.0 million in principal amount of long-term debt that we immediately repaid, incurring a redemption fee of $4.3 million. During 2019, we amended our credit facility, paying $3.0 million in financing costs. 

52
We had no long-term debt-related financing cash flows during 2018. Net cash used by financing activities during both years included: (i) the payment of dividends, (ii) the payment of income tax withholdings made on behalf of our employees upon the net settlement of employee stock awards, and (iii) the receipt of proceeds from exercises of stock options. During 2019 and 2018, we declared cash dividends on our common stock quarterly, paying them in the quarter following declaration. Additionally, during 2019, we declared cash dividends on our preferred stock quarterly, also paying them in the quarter following declaration. During 2019, we paid one $0.18 per common share dividend, three $0.20 per common share dividends, and three $20.3125 per preferred share dividends, totaling $81.7 million. During 2018, we paid one $0.08 per common share dividend, two $0.16 per common share dividends, and one $0.18 per common share dividend, totaling $55.2 million. Future dividend payments will depend on our level of earnings, financial requirements, and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. We paid employee income tax withholdings on the net settlement of stock awards totaling $5.2 million and $12.1 million, in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Cash proceeds received from stock option exercises were $1.3 million and $2.2 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

Capital Expenditures

The following table presents capitalized expenditures for oil and gas acquisition, exploration, and development activities. The table also presents the amounts removed from our oil and gas properties balance, net of applicable purchase price adjustments, due to property sales. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amounts in the table above are presented on an accrual basis. Oil and gas capital expenditures and sales of oil and gas assets in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows reflect capital expenditures and proceeds from property sales on a cash basis, when payments are made and proceeds received.

On March 1, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Resolute Energy Corporation, an independent oil and gas company focused on the acquisition and development of unconventional oil and gas properties in the Delaware Basin area of the Permian Basin of west Texas. The fair value of the proved and unproved properties recorded in the preliminary purchase price allocation for this acquisition was $692.6 million and $1.02 billion, respectively.

We decreased our 2019 E&D expenditures 21% to $1.24 billion compared to $1.57 billion in 2018. Approximately 84% of our 2019 E&D expenditures were in the Permian Basin and 16% were in the Mid-Continent.  During 2019, we completed or participated in the completion of 291 gross (92.1 net) wells, of which we operated 119 gross (85.3 net) wells. See Items 1 and 2 of this report for further information regarding our oil and gas properties.

53
Based on current economic conditions, our 2020 total capital expenditures are projected to range from $1.25 billion to $1.35 billion. This includes drilling and completion capital of approximately $950 million to $1.05 billion, investments in midstream and water infrastructure of approximately $100 million, and investments in other, including capitalized G&A and non-producing leasehold, of approximately $200 million. Approximately 90% of our planned 2020 drilling and completion capital investment is expected to be invested in the Permian Basin, with the remainder in the Mid-Continent. As has been our historical practice, we regularly review our capital expenditures throughout the year and will adjust our investments based on increases or decreases in commodity prices, service costs, and drilling success. We have the flexibility to adjust our capital expenditures based upon market conditions. We intend to fund our 2020 capital investment program with cash flow from our operating activities, cash on hand, and borrowings under our credit facility. Sales of non-strategic assets and possible capital markets transactions may also be used to supplement funding of capital expenditures and acquisitions. The timing of capital expenditures and the receipt of cash flows do not necessarily match, which may cause us to borrow and repay funds under our credit facility from time-to-time. See Long-Term Debt—Bank Debt below for further information regarding our credit facility.

We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental and safety regulations and requirements. These costs are considered a normal recurring cost of our ongoing operations. While we expect current pending legislation or regulations to increase the cost of business, we do not anticipate that we will be required to expend amounts that will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or operations, nor are we aware of any pending regulatory changes that would have a material impact, based on current laws and regulations. However, compliance with new legislation or regulations could increase our costs or adversely affect demand for oil or gas and result in a material adverse effect on our financial position or operations. See Item 1A RISK FACTORS for a description of risks related to current and potential future environmental and safety regulations and requirements that could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.

Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt at December 31, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 ________________________________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

54
Bank Debt

On February 5, 2019, we entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement for our senior unsecured revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”). Among other things, the amended and restated credit facility increased the aggregate commitments to $1.25 billion with an option for us to increase the aggregate commitments to $1.5 billion, and extended the maturity date to February 5, 2024. There is no borrowing base subject to the discretion of the lenders based on the value of our proved reserves under the Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2019, we had no bank borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility, but did have letters of credit of $2.5 million outstanding, leaving an unused borrowing availability of $1.248 billion. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we borrowed and repaid an aggregate of $2.12 billion, on the Credit Facility to meet cash requirements as needed. 

At our option, borrowings under the Credit Facility may bear interest at either (a) LIBOR (or an alternate rate determined by the administrative agent for the Credit Facility in accordance with the Credit Facility when LIBOR is no longer available) plus 1.125 - 2.0% based on the credit rating for our senior unsecured long-term debt, or (b) a base rate (as defined in the credit agreement) plus 0.125 - 1.0%, based on the credit rating for our senior unsecured long-term debt. Unused borrowings are subject to a commitment fee of 0.125 - 0.35%, based on the credit rating for our senior unsecured long-term debt.

The Credit Facility contains representations, warranties, covenants, and events of default that are customary for investment grade, senior unsecured bank credit agreements, including a financial covenant for the maintenance of a defined total debt-to-capital ratio of no greater than 65%. As of December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all of the financial and non-financial covenants.

At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had $4.0 million and $2.2 million, respectively, of unamortized debt issuance costs associated with our Credit Facility, which were recorded as assets and included in “Other assets” in our balance sheets. The costs are being amortized to interest expense ratably over the life of the Credit Facility. We incurred $3.0 million in additional debt issuance costs in amending our Credit Facility.

Senior Notes

On March 8, 2019, we issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% senior unsecured notes due March 15, 2029 at 99.862% of par to yield 4.392% per annum. We received $494.7 million in net cash proceeds, after deducting underwriters’ fees, discount, and debt issuance costs. The notes bear an annual interest rate of 4.375% and interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15, with the first payment made on September 15, 2019. We used the net proceeds to repay borrowings under our Credit Facility that were used to help fund the Resolute acquisition on March 1, 2019. The effective interest rate on these notes, including the amortization of debt issuance costs and discount, is 4.50%.

In April 2017, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 3.90% senior unsecured at 99.748% of par to yield 3.93% per annum. These notes are due May 15, 2027 and interest is payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15. The effective interest rate on these notes, including the amortization of debt issuance costs and discount, is 4.01%.

In June 2014, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% senior unsecured notes at par. These notes are due June 1, 2024 and interest is payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1. The effective interest rate on these notes, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, is 4.50%.

Each of our senior unsecured notes is governed by an indenture containing certain covenants, events of default, and other restrictive provisions with which we were in compliance as of December 31, 2019.

55
Working Capital Analysis

At December 31, 2019, we had a working capital deficit of $137.1 million, a decrease of $852.6 million, or 119% from a working capital surplus of $715.4 million at December 31, 2018. Our working capital decreased primarily due to the decrease in Cash and cash equivalents of $705.9 million, which was a result of cash consideration paid for our acquisition of Resolute and subsequent repayment of long-term debt and other liabilities acquired with Resolute. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the acquisition. In addition to the decrease in cash, other significant changes to working capital consisted primarily of the following:

•Our net current asset derivative instrument position decreased by $73.0 million. The fair value of derivative instruments fluctuates based on changes in the underlying price indices as compared to the contracted prices included in the derivative instruments. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Accounts receivable are a major component of our working capital and include amounts due from a diverse group of companies comprised of major energy companies, pipeline companies, local distribution companies, and other end-users. Historically, losses associated with uncollectible receivables have not been significant.

Dividends

A quarterly cash dividend has been paid on our common stock every quarter since the first quarter of 2006. During 2019, our Board of Directors declared four $0.20 per common share cash dividends, totaling $81.4 million. In March 2019, in conjunction with the Resolute acquisition, we issued 62.5 thousand shares of 8.125% Series A Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share. During 2019, our Board of Directors declared four cash dividends of $20.3125 per preferred share, totaling $5.1 million. Future dividend payments will depend on our level of earnings, financial requirements, and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our stock and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Resolute acquisition.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We may enter into off-balance sheet arrangements and transactions that can give rise to material off-balance sheet obligations. As of December 31, 2019, our material off-balance sheet arrangements consisted of operating lease agreements with lease terms at commencement of 12 months or less. As an accounting policy, we have elected not to apply the recognition requirements of Topic 842 to these leases. As such, we have not recorded any lease liabilities associated with these leases.

56
Contractual Obligations and Material Commitments

At December 31, 2019, we had the following contractual obligations and material commitments:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 ________________________________________

(1)The interest payments presented above include the accrued interest payable on our long-term debt as of December 31, 2019 as well as future payments calculated using the long-term debt’s fixed rates, stated maturity dates, and principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2019. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our debt.

(2)Operating leases include the estimated remaining contractual payments under lease agreements as of December 31, 2019. These lease agreements are primarily comprised of leases for commercial real estate, which consists primarily of office space, and compressor equipment.

(3)Of the total unconditional purchase obligations, $20.2 million represents obligations for the purchase of sand for well completions and $64.0 million represents obligations for firm transportation agreements for gas and oil pipeline capacity. 

(4)We have excluded the presentation of the timing of the cash flows associated with our long-term asset retirement obligations because we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the future period of cash settlement. The long-term asset retirement obligation is included in the total asset retirement obligation presented. 

(5)Other long-term liabilities include contractual obligations associated with our employee supplemental savings plan, gas balancing liabilities, and other miscellaneous liabilities. All of these liabilities are accrued on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The current portion associated with these long-term liabilities is also presented in the table above.

The following discusses various commercial commitments that we have made that may include potential future cash payments if we fail to meet various performance obligations. These are not reflected in the table above, unless otherwise noted.

At December 31, 2019, we had estimated commitments of approximately: (i) $321.7 million to finish drilling, completing, or performing other work on wells and various other infrastructure projects in progress and (ii) $6.6 million to finish gathering system construction in progress.

At December 31, 2019, we had firm sales contracts to deliver approximately 703.7 Bcf of gas over the next 11.5 years. If we do not deliver this gas, our estimated financial commitment, calculated using the January 2020 index prices, would be approximately $1.03 billion. The value of this commitment will fluctuate due to price volatility and actual volumes delivered. However, we believe no financial commitment will be due based on our current proved reserves and production levels from which we can fulfill these volumetric obligations.

57
In connection with gas gathering and processing agreements, we have volume commitments over the next 9.0 years. If we do not deliver the committed gas or NGLs, as the case may be, the estimated maximum amount that would be payable under these commitments, calculated as of December 31, 2019, would be approximately $697.2 million. However, we believe no financial commitment will be due based on our current proved reserves and production levels from which we can fulfill these volumetric obligations.

We have minimum volume delivery commitments associated with agreements to reimburse connection costs to various pipelines. If we do not deliver this gas, or oil, as the case may be, the estimated maximum amount that would be payable under these commitments, calculated as of December 31, 2019, would be approximately $117.6 million. Of this total, we have accrued a liability of $4.5 million representing the estimated amount we will have to pay due to insufficient forecasted volumes at particular connection points. This accrual is reflected in the table above in Other long-term liabilities.

All of the noted commitments were routine and made in the ordinary course of our business.

Taking into account current commodity prices and anticipated levels of production, we believe that our net cash flow generated from operations and our other capital resources will be adequate to meet future obligations.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operation are based on our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. We analyze and base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in facts and circumstances or additional information may result in revised estimates, and actual results may differ from these estimates.

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We have identified the following policies as being of particular importance to the portrayal of our financial position and results of operations and which require the application of significant judgment by management.

Oil and Gas Reserves

The process of estimating quantities of oil and gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions in the evaluation of all available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data. The data for a given field may also change substantially over time due to numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history and continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic conditions. As a result, material revisions to existing reserve estimates may occur from time to time. Although every reasonable effort is made to ensure that our reserve estimates represent the most accurate assessments possible, subjective decisions and available data for our various fields make these estimates generally less precise than other estimates included in financial statement disclosures.

At year-end 2019, 14% of our total proved reserves are categorized as proved undeveloped reserves. Our engineers review and revise these reserve estimates regularly, as new information becomes available.

We use the units-of-production method to amortize the cost associated with our oil and gas properties. Changes in estimates of reserve quantities and commodity prices will cause corresponding changes in depletion expense, or in some cases, a full cost ceiling impairment charge in the period of the revision. See Full Cost Accounting below for further information regarding the ceiling limitation calculation. See SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES (UNAUDITED) in Item 8 for additional reserve data.

58
Full Cost Accounting

We use the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas operations. All costs associated with property acquisition, exploration, and development activities are capitalized. Exploration and development costs include dry hole costs, geological and geophysical costs, direct overhead related to exploration and development activities, and other costs incurred for the purpose of finding oil and gas reserves. Salaries and benefits paid to employees directly involved in the acquisition, exploration, and development of properties, as well as other internal costs that can be directly identified with acquisition, exploration, and development activities, are also capitalized. Under the full cost method of accounting, no gain or loss is recognized upon the disposition of oil and gas properties unless such disposition would significantly alter the relationship between capitalized costs and proved reserves. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to production expense in the period incurred.

Under the full cost method of accounting, we are required to perform quarterly ceiling test calculations to test our oil and gas properties for possible impairment. If the net capitalized cost of our oil and gas properties, as adjusted for income taxes, exceeds the ceiling limitation, the excess is charged to expense. The ceiling limitation is equal to the sum of: (i) the present value discounted at 10% of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves, (ii) the cost of properties not being amortized, and (iii) the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproven properties included in the costs being amortized, as adjusted for income taxes. We currently do not have any unproven properties that are being amortized. Estimated future net revenues are determined based on trailing twelve-month average commodity prices and estimated proved reserve quantities, operating costs, and capital expenditures.

The quarterly ceiling test is primarily impacted by commodity prices, changes in estimated reserve quantities, reserves produced, overall exploration and development costs, depletion expense, and deferred taxes. If pricing conditions decline, or if there is a negative impact on one or more of the other components of the calculation, we may incur a full cost ceiling test impairment. The calculated ceiling limitation is not intended to be indicative of the fair market value of our proved reserves or future results. Impairment charges do not affect cash flow from operating activities, but do adversely affect our net income and various components of our balance sheet. Any impairment of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date.

Depletion of proved oil and gas properties is computed on the units-of-production method, whereby capitalized costs, including future development costs and asset retirement costs, are amortized over total estimated proved reserves. Changes in our estimate of proved reserve quantities and impairment of oil and gas properties will cause corresponding changes in depletion expense in periods subsequent to these changes.

The capitalized costs of unproved properties, including those in wells in progress, are excluded from the costs being amortized. We do not have major development projects that are excluded from costs being amortized. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate excluded costs for inclusion in the costs to be amortized. Significant unproved properties are evaluated individually. Unproved properties that are not considered individually significant are aggregated for evaluation purposes and related costs are transferred to the costs to be amortized quarterly based on the application of historical factors.

Income Taxes

Our oil and gas exploration and production operations are subject to taxation on income in numerous jurisdictions. We record deferred tax assets and liabilities to account for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements and our tax returns. We routinely assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets. Numerous judgments and assumptions are inherent in this assessment, including the determination of future taxable income, which is affected by factors such as future operating conditions (particularly as related to prevailing oil and gas prices) and changing tax laws. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, the tax asset would be reduced by a valuation allowance.

59
We regularly assess and, if required, establish accruals for tax contingencies that could result from assessments of additional tax by taxing jurisdictions where the company operates. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our income taxes.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK