Part I

Item 1. Business 

Recent Changes and Developments:

Company Reorganization

On March 6, 2019, the Xerox Board of Directors approved a reorganization (the Reorganization) of the Company's corporate structure into a holding company structure. The Reorganization was subject to the approval of shareholders, which was obtained at the annual shareholders meeting held May 21, 2019. 

On July 31, 2019, the Reorganization was completed, pursuant to which Xerox Corporation (Xerox - the predecessor publicly held parent company) became a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Xerox Holdings Corporation (Xerox Holdings). The business operations, directors and executive officers of the Company did not change as a result of the Reorganization. In this Reorganization, shareholders of Xerox became shareholders of Xerox Holdings on a one-for-one basis; maintaining the same number of shares and ownership percentage as held in Xerox immediately prior to the Reorganization. Shares of Xerox Holdings common stock trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol XRX, formerly used by Xerox. 

Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Corporate Reorganization, in the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the Reorganization. 

Currently, Xerox Holdings' sole direct operating subsidiary is Xerox and therefore Xerox reflects the entirety of Xerox Holdings' operations. Accordingly, the following Item 1. Business description solely focuses on the operations of Xerox and is intended to help the reader understand Xerox's business and strategy. Throughout this section references are made to various notes in the Consolidated Financial Statements which appear in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, and the information contained in such notes is incorporated by reference into the places where such references are made.

Throughout the Business description that follows, references to “we,” “our,” the “Company,” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its subsidiaries. References to “Xerox Corporation” refer to the stand-alone company and do not include subsidiaries. References to “Xerox Holdings Corporation” refer to the stand-alone parent company and do not include its subsidiaries.

Sales of Ownership Interests in Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. and Xerox International Partners

In November 2019, Xerox Holdings completed a series of transactions to restructure its relationship with FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation (FH), including the sale of its indirect 25% equity interest in Fuji Xerox (FX) for approximately $2.2 billion as well as the sale of its indirect 51% partnership interest in Xerox International Partners (XIP) for approximately $23 million (collectively the Sales). 

As a result of the Sales and the related strategic shift in our business, the historical financial results of our equity method investment in FX and our XIP business (which was consolidated) are reflected as a discontinued operation for the periods prior to the Sales, and their impact is excluded from continuing operations for all periods presented. 

The arrangements with FX, whereby we purchase inventory from and sell inventory to FX, will continue after the Sales and, as a result of our 2006 Technology Agreement (Technology Agreement) with Fuji Xerox which remains in effect through March 2021, we will continue to receive royalty payments for FX’s use of our Xerox brand trademark, as well as rights to access our patent portfolio in exchange for access to their patent portfolio. 

Refer to the Executive Overview section in Item 7 to this 2019 Form 10-K as well as Note 7 - Divestitures and Note 12 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity, in the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the Sales and other transactions with FH and FX, and Note 27 - Subsequent Events, in the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding our Technology Agreement with FX. 

Prior to the completion of the sale, Fuji Xerox was an unconsolidated subsidiary of Xerox. Fuji Xerox develops, manufactures and distributes document processing products in Japan, China, Hong Kong, other areas of the Pacific Rim, Australia and New Zealand. 

Xerox 2019 Annual Report 1

Table of Contents 

Business Overview

Xerox is a workplace technology company, building and integrating software and hardware for enterprises large and small. As customers seek to manage information across digital and physical platforms, we deliver a seamless, secure and sustainable experience. Whether inventing the copier, the Ethernet, the laser printer or more, Xerox has long defined the modern work experience and continues to do so with investments in artificial intelligence (AI), sensors and services for Internet of Things (IoT), digital packaging, 3-D printing and Clean Technologies (cleantech). 

Geographically, our footprint spans approximately 160 countries and allows us to deliver our technology and solutions to customers of all sizes, regardless of complexity or number of customer locations.

Xerox Strategy 

We are focused on growing the company’s revenue and portfolio by increasing our position as a leader in the printer market while investing in key areas of growth including software and services, as well as focused areas of innovation. Our core printer market is estimated at approximately $68 billion1, while our adjacent growth markets of Software and Services are estimated at approximately $34 billion1. Under an enterprise-wide initiative called Project Own It, we are streamlining our operations and increasing efficiency and speed to market while reducing costs. Project Own It objectives are designed to enable us to increase our cash flow and profits while reinvesting in our business and returning capital to shareholders. 

We have four strategic initiatives that we believe will position Xerox for success:

1.Optimize operations for simplicity

•Continuously improve operating model for greater efficiency

•Optimize the supply chain and supplier competitiveness 

•Leverage digital technologies to make it easier to do business with Xerox

2.Drive Revenue

•Enhance the customer experience

•Expand integrated solutions comprised of hardware, software and services

•Focus on driving growth within the small and midsize businesses (SMB)

3.Re-energize the innovation engine

•Invest in growing market segments such as 3D printing, AI and IoT

•Leverage software capability to launch new services

•Monetize new innovations

4.Focus on cash flow and increasing capital returns

•Maximize cash flow generation 

•Return at least 50 percent of free cash flow to shareholders (Operating cash flows from continuing operations less capital expenditures)

•Focus on ROI and internal rate of return to make capital allocation decisions

_______

(1) Market estimates are derived from third-party forecasts produced by major industry research firms.

Optimize Operations for Simplicity

Through Project Own It, we have delivered approximately $1 billion of savings during the 18 month-period ending December 31, 2019 (including $640 million of savings during fiscal year 2019), consistent with our expectations. We expect to deliver approximately $450 million of cost savings in 2020, and a total of $1.5 billion for the full 3-year program ending in 2021. We expect savings generated by Project Own It to continue to support the expansion of our margins while allowing us to invest in areas of the business that will help us improve our revenue trajectory. 

Drive Revenue 

We are a leader in our industry and have a strong, and valuable global brand. We have a three-year revenue roadmap that was outlined in 2019 to deliver flat year-over-year revenue in 2021. This roadmap focuses on five key areas to drive revenue improvement, including:

•Improve our core technology business by building on our leadership positions in the market. Within the workplace, our ConnectKey technology and productivity apps transform Xerox multi-function printers (MFPs) into workplace assistants that help users automate time-consuming processes. Within production print, Xerox is unique in being able to pair its industry-leading presses with its ability to offer software that takes clients from document creation to distribution.

Xerox 2019 Annual Report 2

Table of Contents 

•Expand our services and software business by building on our leadership in the Managed Print Services (MPS) market to deliver more intelligent workplace solutions and digital services targeted at specific industry needs, and by growing our software business with a focus on personalization and content management software solutions.

•Capitalize on the opportunity in the SMB market by increasing our investments in indirect market channels and in our Xerox Business Solutions (XBS) and similar European sales channels.

•Transform the customer experience by building a digital experience and enhancing our e-commerce sales platforms.

•Drive innovation and new growth businesses by increasing focus and investment in our four innovation programs: digital packaging and print, AI workflow assistants for knowledge workers, 3D printing and digital manufacturing, sensors and services for IoT, and cleantech.

Re-energize the Innovation Engine

Xerox has long defined the workplace experience and we are continuing to invest in key areas of technology that position us to do so for decades to come. In addition to investing in our core printing technology, we also are investing in key adjacencies that include digital packaging and print, AI workflow assistants for knowledge workers, 3D printing and digital manufacturing, sensors and services for IoT, and cleantech. We also see opportunity in expanding our core into areas such as workflow automation, IT services, customized communication and security technologies. 

We expect our investments in innovation for our core and adjacent growth markets will deliver incremental value for our customers and drive profitable revenue growth for our business. 

Our innovation goals are supported by cross disciplinary research programs in our different research centers. Palo Alto Research Center (PARC), the most prominent of these centers, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Xerox located in Silicon Valley, California. It provides our commercial and government clients with R&D and open innovation services. PARC scientists have deep technological expertise in areas that we consider fundamental to bring high-impact innovations to our customers and the world; such areas include artificial intelligence, intelligent sensing, computer vision, printed electronics, energy and cleantech, and digital design and manufacturing.

Refer to the Research, Development and Engineering Expenses (RD&E) section in Item 7 to this 2019 Form 10-K as well as Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding RD&E spending.

Focus on Cash Flow and Increasing Capital Returns

Our business is based on a model where a large portion of revenues are generated by multi-year contractual arrangements, with approximately 75 percent coming from post-sale revenue, our most profitable revenue stream. Additionally, there is low annual capital expenditures (less than 2 percent of revenues) required to support our current business model. These factors result in stable gross margins and operating margins as well as strong and stable cash flow generation.

We will deploy our substantial cash flow to drive shareholder returns through:

•A commitment to return at least 50 percent of our free cash flow (Operating cash flows from continuing operations less capital expenditures) to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases; and

•Selective pursuit of acquisitions in targeted growth areas. 

We target to manage our core debt (debt excluding financing related debt) to under two times expected annual free cash flow.

Acquisitions

Our strong balance sheet and cash flow generation allow us to pursue M&A opportunities to support our growth expectations. We maintain a broad M&A pipeline that includes targets within the industry and adjacent markets. Our current acquisition strategy has been focused on further penetrating the SMB market through acquisitions of local area resellers and partners (including multi-brand dealers). 

During 2019, Xerox acquired Rabbit Office Automation and Heritage Business Systems, Inc., two multi-brand dealers that further our penetration of the SMB market. Further details about our acquisitions can be found in Note 6 - Acquisitions, in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In November 2019, Xerox proposed a business combination transaction with HP Inc. (HP). Further details regarding this proposal can be found within the Executive Overview in Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis on Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Xerox 2019 Annual Report 3

Table of Contents 

Segment Information

Our business is organized to ensure we focus on efficiently managing our operations and serving the customers and markets in which we operate. We maintain a geographic focus and are primarily organized from a sales perspective on the basis of “go-to-market” sales channels. These sales channels are structured to serve a range of customers for our products and services. As a result of this structure, we recognize that we have one operating and reportable segment - the design, development and sale of printing technology and related solutions.

As part of our strategy, we integrate our capabilities across technology, software and services which offer our customers the broadest solutions-enabled portfolio in the industry to address their needs of workflow simplification, security and productivity across their digital and physical document processes.

Revenues

We have a broad and diverse base of customers by both geography and industry, ranging from SMBs to printing production companies, governmental entities, educational institutions and Fortune 1000 corporations. Our business does not depend upon a single customer, or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business spans three primary offering areas: Xerox Services, Workplace Solutions and Graphic Communications and Production Solutions. 

Xerox Services includes a continuum of solutions and services that helps our customers optimize their print and communications infrastructure, apply automation and simplification to maximize productivity, and ensure the highest levels of security. Our primary offerings in this area are Intelligent Workplace Services (IWS) and a range of Digital Services that leverage our software capabilities in Workflow Automation, Personalization and Communication Software, Content Management Solutions, and Digitization Services. In 2019, Xerox was the only cloud-based MPS provider with FedRAMP authorization.

Xerox has the capability to support integration and document security on a global scale, which are critical factors for large enterprises.

•Intelligent Workplace Services (IWS), which transcends the traditional MPS offering, utilizes our portfolio of analytics, cloud, digitization and ConnectKey® technologies to help companies optimize their print infrastructure, secure their print environment and automate related business processes. We provide the most comprehensive portfolio of MPS services in the industry and are recognized as an industry leader by major analyst firms including IDC, Quocirca and Keypoint Intelligence-InfoTrends. Our IWS offering targets clients ranging from global enterprises to governmental entities and to small and medium-sized businesses, including those served via our channel partners. 

•Digital Services enables the integration of Xerox technology, software and services to securely design and manage the digitization and workflow of our clients’ content. We utilize our domain expertise and technology to enable efficient and compliant business processing and communications in the demanding regulatory environments and markets of our Healthcare, Insurance, Public Sector and Retail clients. For healthcare, we enable healthcare organizations to provide an improved patient experience, from admission to discharge. For insurance, we help insurance organizations to connect numerous touch points across the client journey, from acquisition to onboarding. For public sector, we assist government agencies in improving the citizen experience, from public assistance to benefits. For retail, we enable retailers drive brand engagement and loyalty through an enhanced experience at every stage of the consumer experience, from point-of-sales to campaigns on demand. 

Workplace Solutions is made up of two strategic product groups, Entry and Mid-Range, which share common technology, manufacturing and product platforms. Workplace Solutions revenues include the sale of products and supplies, as well as the associated technical service and financing of those products.

•Entry comprises desktop monochrome and color printers and multifunction printers (MFPs) ranging from small personal devices to office workgroup printers and MFPs. 

•Mid-Range are larger devices that have more features and can handle higher print volumes and larger paper sizes than entry devices. We are a leader in this area of the market and offer a wide range of MFPs, digital printing presses and light production devices, as well as solutions that deliver flexibility and advanced features.

Graphic Communications and Production Solutions (High-End) are designed for customers in the graphic communications, in-plant and production print environments with high-volume printing requirements. Our broad portfolio of presses and solutions provides full-color, on-demand printing of a wide range of applications. Our xerographic presses provide high-speed, high-volume cut-sheet printing, ideal for publishing, transactional printing, including variable data for personalized content and one-to-one marketing, to the highest quality of color and embellishment requirements. Our inkjet presses offer a broad range of roll fed, continuous feed printing technologies, including waterless inkjet and aqueous inkjet for vivid color, and toner-based flash fusing for black and white. Our portfolio spans a variety of print 

Xerox 2019 Annual Report 4

Table of Contents 

speeds, image quality, feeding, finishing and media options. We are a worldwide leader in the cut-sheet color and monochrome production industry. Graphic Communications and Production Solutions revenues include the sale of products, software and supplies, as well as the associated technical service and financing of those products. 

In addition to our three primary offering areas described above, a smaller portion of our revenues comes from non-core streams including paper sales in our developing market countries, wide-format systems, licensing revenue, software and IT services. Our strategy includes expanding our software business with a focus on personalization and communication software and content management solutions, and growing our IT services in the SMB. Personalization and Communications Software and Content Management Solutions are XMPie, DocuShare and FreeFlow. XMPie is a robust personalization and communication software that can support the needs of omni-channel communications customers, from onboarding to retention. DocuShare is a content management platform that provides a better way to capture, store and share paper and digital content, either on-premise or in the cloud while automating time-consuming, document-heavy processes like accounts payable, HR onboarding, contract management and mortgage processing. In addition, we operate a network of centers that digitize and automate paper and digital workflows, enabling our customers to operate cost-efficiently in a fully-digitized environment with speed, quality and 24x7 availability. FreeFlow is a portfolio of software offerings that brings intelligent workflow automation and integration to the processing of print jobs, from file preparation to final production, helping customers of all sizes address a wide range of business opportunities including automation, personalization and even electronic publishing. IT Services provide our SMB customers with cost efficient solutions to manage their IT needs including PC and network infrastructure, communications technology, and network administration. Our services include cloud and on-server support. 

Geographic Information

Overall, approximately 40% of our revenue is generated by customers outside the U.S. Additional details can be found in Note 5 - Segment and Geographic Area Reporting in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

In 2019, Xerox and its subsidiaries were awarded 429 U.S. utility patents. Under the terms of the Technology Agreement, with Fuji Xerox, which remains in effect through March 2021, we will continue to receive royalty payments for FX’s use of our Xerox brand trademark, as well as rights to access our patent portfolio in exchange for access to their patent portfolio. Including our research partner Fuji Xerox, we were awarded 974 U.S. utility patents during the period. Our patent portfolio evolves as new patents are awarded to us and as older patents expire. As of December 31, 2019, Xerox held approximately 9,274 U.S. design and utility patents. These patents expire at various dates up to 20 years or more from their original filing dates. While we believe that our portfolio of patents and applications has value, in general no single patent is essential to our business. In addition, any of our proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide significant competitive advantages.

We are party to multiple patent-licensing agreements and, in a majority of them, we licensed or assigned our patents to others in return for revenue and/or access to their patents or to further our business goals. Most patent licenses expire concurrently with the expiration of the last patent identified in the license. We were also party to a number of cross-licensing agreements with companies that also hold substantial patent portfolios. These agreements vary in subject matter, scope, compensation, significance and duration.

In the U.S., we own about 196 U.S. trademarks, either registered or applied for. These trademarks have a perpetual life, subject to renewal every 10 years. We vigorously enforce and protect our trademarks.

Environmental Social Governance (ESG)

At our core is a deep and long-lasting commitment to ESG, a pledge to inspire and support our people, conduct business ethically across the value chain and preserve our planet. This commitment stems from the corporate values established over sixty years ago which include: succeeding through satisfied customers; delivering quality and excellence in all we do; requiring a premium return on assets; using technology to develop market leaders; valuing and empowering our employees; and behaving responsibly as a corporate citizen. 

We continue this legacy by turning investments in innovation into products and services that help our customers be more productive, profitable and sustainable. Driving efficiency in our business operations, smart investments in technologies that afford our customers added agility-personalization, automation and better workflow as part of our customer-centric approach, will underpin our corporate social responsibility efforts. We do this in our own operations, as well as in workplaces, communities and cities around the world. We recognize the world’s challenges such as climate change and human rights and understand the role we play.

Xerox 2019 Annual Report 5

Table of Contents 

We are constantly thinking about how we can simplify work, deliver more personalized experiences and improve productivity through new technologies. We strive to connect the physical and digital worlds without adversely affecting the environment, human health and safety.

Our pledge to inspire and support our people, conduct business ethically and protect our planet remains at the core of everything we do. At Xerox, we believe in continuously improving, and we apply this mentality to ensuring we are always finding ways to improve the sustainability of our operations. 

The Xerox 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report (available at www.xerox.com) describes our management approach for ESG. Xerox’s CSR report highlights include:

Environment

•99.7% of supplies and consumables returned by customers at end-of-life were diverted from entering landfills. Instead, we remanufactured, reused, recycled, or provided the waste to suppliers who converted it into an energy source.

•1 billion pages offset through the PrintReleaf program.

•100% of newly-launched, eligible Xerox products satisfied the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT®) and EPA ENERGY STAR® eco-labels.

•16% reduction in Greenhouse gas emissions from our operations using a 2016 baseline; moving us closer to our goal of 25% reduction by 2025.

Social

•Worldwide employee matching gift program for any qualified non-profit.

•Worldwide Total Recordable Injuries (TRI) rate of our employees in the U.S. decreased 11%.

•Supplier spend with suppliers representing small Tier I, minority, woman or veteran-owned businesses accounted for 10% of our total spend.

•Details on award winning diversity and inclusion programs coupled with global affinity groups.

Governance

•All Xerox ESG Priorities 3rd party validated by Business for Social Responsibility (BSR).

•100% of production suppliers required to adhere to Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct.

•Board oversight of corporate social responsibility.

•Disclosure of all political activities and trade association memberships.

Marketing and Distribution

We go to market with a services-led approach and sell our products and services directly to customers through our direct sales force and through independent agents, dealers, value-added resellers, systems integrators and the Web. In addition, our wholly-owned subsidiary, XBS, an office technology organization comprised of regional core companies in the U.S., sells document management and IT services. We also continue to focus on broadening our distribution to small and mid-sized businesses through the expansion of our network of multi-brand resellers. 

We are structured to serve our customers globally into two units: the Americas, comprised of the U.S. and Canada along with Mexico, Central and South America; and EMEA, which includes Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India. We have also implemented a common global delivery model that aims to provide a consistent customer experience worldwide. We believe that these changes create a leaner and more effective go-to-market model that will streamline our supply chain and provide our customers with best-in-class services. 

In EMEA and parts of Asia, we distribute our products through Xerox Limited, a company established under the laws of England, as well as through related non-U.S. companies. Xerox Limited enters into distribution agreements with unaffiliated third parties to distribute our products in many of the countries located in these regions and previously entered into agreements with unaffiliated third parties who distribute our products in Sudan. Sudan, among others, has been designated as a state sponsor of terrorism by the U.S. Department of State and is subject to U.S. economic sanctions. We maintain an export and sanctions compliance program, and believe that we have been, and are, in compliance with U.S. laws and government regulations for Sudan. We have no assets, liabilities or operations in Sudan other than liabilities under the distribution agreements. After observing required prior notice periods, Xerox Limited terminated its distribution agreements with distributors servicing Sudan in August 2006. Now, Xerox has only legacy obligations to third parties, such as providing spare parts and supplies to these third parties. In 2019, total Xerox revenues of $9.1 billion included approximately $6 thousand attributable to Sudan.

On January 5, 2020, Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. (Fuji Xerox) notified Xerox that it does not intend to renew the Technology Agreement on its expiration date, March 31, 2021. The Technology Agreement (TA) governs the technology and brand 

Xerox 2019 Annual Report 6

Table of Contents 

licenses, and sales territories in which each company can engage. Refer to Note 27 - Subsequent Events in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Competition

Although we encounter competition in all areas of our business, we are the leader - or among the leaders - in each of our core offering areas. We compete on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand reputation, distribution, and customer service and support.

Our larger competitors include Canon, HP Inc., Konica Minolta and Ricoh. Our brand recognition, reputation for document management expertise, innovative technology and service delivery excellence are our competitive advantages. These advantages, combined with our breadth of product offerings, global distribution channels and customer relationships, position us as a strong competitor going forward. 

Customer Financing

We finance a large portion of our direct channel customer purchases of Xerox equipment through bundled lease agreements. We also provide lease financing to end-user customers who purchased Xerox equipment through our indirect channels. We compete with other third-party leasing companies with respect to the lease financing provided to these end-user customers. In both instances, financing facilitates customer acquisition of Xerox technology and enhances our value proposition, while providing Xerox a reasonable return on our investment in this business. Additionally, because we primarily finance our own products and have a long history of providing financing to our customers, we are able to minimize much of the risk normally associated with a finance business.

Because our lease contracts allow customers to pay for equipment over time rather than upfront upon installation, we maintain a certain level of debt to support our investment in these lease contracts. We fund our customer financing activity through a combination of cash generated from operations, cash on hand and proceeds from capital market offerings. At December 31, 2019, we had approximately $3.4 billion of finance receivables and $364 million of equipment on operating leases, or Total Finance assets of $3.7 billion. We maintain an assumed 7:1 leverage ratio of debt to equity as compared to our Finance assets, which results in approximately $3.3 billion of our $4.3 billion of debt being allocated to our financing business.

Refer to "Debt and Customer Financing Activities" in the Capital Resources and Liquidity section of Management's Discussion and Analysis, included in Item 7 of this 2019 Form 10-K, for additional information.

Manufacturing and Supply

Our manufacturing and distribution facilities are located around the world. Our largest manufacturing site is in Webster, N.Y., where we produce the Xerox iGen, Nuvera, and Baltoro printer systems, as well as key components and consumables for our products such as toner. We also have manufacturing operations in Dundalk, Ireland, for components, consumables and printer systems sustainable manufacturing, and in Wilsonville, OR, for solid ink consumables and components. Other Xerox manufacturing plants are located in Venray, Netherlands; Ontario, Canada; and Oklahoma City, OK, where we manufacture materials and components.

Additionally, we work with various manufacturing and distribution partners. This diversification of suppliers brings flexibility in our manufacturing and supply chain and supports our cost efficiency goals, which are both objectives of Project Own It as well as one of our strategic initiatives to optimize operations for simplicity. Fuji Xerox is our largest partner, with whom we maintain product sourcing agreements for specific products across our entry, mid-range and high-end portfolios, some of which are the result of mutual research and development agreements. We also outsource certain manufacturing activities to FLEX LTD (Flex), a global contract manufacturer with whom we maintain a longstanding relationship, and we acquire products from various third parties in order to increase the breadth of our product portfolio and meet channel requirements and in 2019 we entered into a supply agreement with HP Inc.

Refer to "Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments and Contingencies" in the Capital Resources and Liquidity section of Management's Discussion and Analysis, included in Item 7 of this 2019 Form 10-K, as well as Note 12 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our relationship with Fuji Xerox. 

International Operations

The financial measures, by geographical area for 2019, 2018 and 2017, are included in Note 5 - Segment and Geographic Area Reporting in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. See also the risk factor entitled “Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted by conditions abroad, including local economic and political environments, fluctuating foreign currencies and shifting regulatory schemes” in Part I, Item 1A included herein. 

Xerox 2019 Annual Report 7

Table of Contents 

Backlog

Backlog, or the value of unfilled equipment orders, is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects because a significant proportion of our revenue is fulfilled from existing inventories or within a short period of order signing.

Seasonality

Our revenues may be affected by such factors as the introduction of new products, the length of sales cycles and the seasonality of technology purchases and printing volume. These factors have historically resulted in lower revenues, operating profits and operating cash flows in the first and third quarter.

Employees

We had approximately 27,000 employees worldwide at December 31, 2019.

Other Information

Xerox Holdings

Xerox Holdings is a New York corporation, organized in 2019 and our principal executive offices are located at 201 Merritt 7, P.O. Box 4505, Norwalk, Connecticut 06851-1056. Our telephone number is (203) 968-3000.

Xerox Corporation

Xerox is a New York corporation, organized in 1906 and our principal executive offices are located at 201 Merritt 7, P.O. Box 4505, Norwalk, Connecticut 06851-1056. Our telephone number is (203) 968-3000.

Within the Investor Relations section of Xerox Holdings' website, you will find our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports. We make these documents available timely after we have filed them with, or furnished them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The SEC's Internet address is www.sec.gov. 

Our Internet address is www.xerox.com. The content of our website is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K unless expressly noted.

Xerox 2019 Annual Report 8

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors