Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Introduction and Overview

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”), should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements (“Financial Statements”) in Item 8 and the Forward-Looking Statements and the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A. All Note references herein refer to the Notes to the Financial Statements. Tabular amounts are displayed in millions of U.S. dollars except per share and unit count amounts, or as otherwise specifically identified. Percentages may not recompute due to rounding.

Yum! Brands, Inc. ("Company", “YUM”, "we", "us" or "our") franchises or operates a worldwide system of over 50,000 restaurants in more than 150 countries and territories, primarily under the concepts of KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell (collectively, the "Concepts"). These three Concepts are global leaders of the chicken, pizza and Mexican-style food categories, respectively. Of the over 50,000 restaurants, 98% are operated by franchisees.

As of December 31, 2019, YUM consists of three operating segments:

•The KFC Division which includes our worldwide operations of the KFC concept 

•The Pizza Hut Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Pizza Hut concept

•The Taco Bell Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Taco Bell concept 

Through our Recipe for Growth and Good we intend to unlock the growth potential of our Concepts and YUM, drive increased collaboration across our Concepts and geographies and consistently deliver better customer experiences, improved economics and higher rates of growth. Key enablers include accelerated use of technology and better leverage of our systemwide scale.

Our Recipe for Growth is based on four key drivers:

•Unrivaled Culture and Talent: Leverage our culture and people capability to fuel brand performance and franchise success

•Unmatched Operating Capability: Recruit and equip the best restaurant operators in the world to deliver great customer experiences

•Relevant, Easy and Distinctive Brands: Innovate and elevate iconic restaurant brands people trust and champion

•Bold Restaurant Development: Drive market and franchise expansion with strong economics and value

Our Recipe for Good reflects our global citizenship and sustainability strategy and practices, while reinforcing our public commitment to drive socially responsible growth, risk management and sustainable stewardship of our food, planet and people. 

On October 11, 2016 YUM announced our transformation plans to drive global expansion of our KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell brands (“YUM's Strategic Transformation Initiatives”) following the spin-off of our China business into an independent publicly-traded company under the name of Yum China Holdings, Inc. (“Yum China”). At this time, we established transformation goals that were met by the end of 2019 including becoming:

•More Focused. By focusing on four growth drivers similar to those that make up our Recipe for Growth above we accelerated system sales growth to 8% in 2019 (excluding the impacts of the 53rd week and foreign currency translation).

•More Franchised. The Company successfully increased franchise restaurant ownership to 98% as of the end of 2018.

•More Efficient. The Company revamped its financial profile, improving the efficiency of its organization and cost structure globally, by:

•Reducing annual capital expenditures associated with Company-operated restaurant maintenance and other projects and funded additional capital for new Company units through the refranchising of existing Company units. Capital spending in 2019 net of refranchising proceeds was $86 million. 

•Lowering General and administrative expenses ("G&A") to 1.7% of system sales in 2019; and 

•Maintaining an optimized capital structure of ~5.0x Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (“EBITDA”) leverage.

From 2017 through 2019, we returned $6.5 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and cash dividends. We funded these shareholder returns through a combination of refranchising proceeds, free cash flow generation and maintenance of our ~5.0x EBITDA leverage. We generated pre-tax proceeds of $2.8 billion through our refranchising initiatives to achieve targeted franchise ownership of 98%. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of this MD&A for additional details.

26

Going forward, we expect to:

•Maintain a capital structure of ~5.0x EBITDA leverage;

•Invest capital in a manner consistent with an asset light, franchisor model; and 

•Allocate G&A in an efficient manner that provides leverage to operating profit growth while at the same time opportunistically investing in strategic growth initiatives.

We intend for this MD&A to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our results of operations, including performance metrics that management uses to assess the Company's performance. Throughout this MD&A, we commonly discuss the following performance metrics:

•Same-store sales growth is the estimated percentage change in sales of all restaurants that have been open and in the YUM system for one year or more, including those temporarily closed. From time-to-time restaurants may be temporarily closed due to remodeling or image enhancement, rebuilding, natural disasters, health epidemic or pandemic, landlord disputes or other issues. We believe same-store sales growth is useful to investors because our results are heavily dependent on the results of our Concepts' existing store base. Additionally, same-store sales growth is reflective of the strength of our Brands, the effectiveness of our operational and advertising initiatives and local economic and consumer trends. In 2019, when calculating same-store sales growth we also included in our prior year base the sales of stores that were added as a result of the Telepizza strategic alliance in December 2018 and that were open for one year or more. See description of the Telepizza strategic alliance within this MD&A.

•Net new unit growth reflects new unit openings offset by store closures, by us and our franchisees. To determine whether a restaurant meets the definition of a unit we consider whether the restaurant has operations that are ongoing and independent from another YUM unit, serves the primary product of one of our Concepts, operates under a separate franchise agreement (if operated by a franchisee) and has substantial and sustainable sales. We believe net new unit growth is useful to investors because we depend on net new units for a significant portion of our growth. Additionally, net new unit growth is generally reflective of the economic returns to us and our franchisees from opening and operating our Concept restaurants.

•Company restaurant profit ("Restaurant profit") is defined as Company sales less expenses incurred directly by our Company-owned restaurants in generating Company sales. Company restaurant margin as a percentage of sales is defined as Restaurant profit divided by Company sales. Restaurant profit is useful to investors as it provides a measure of profitability for our Company-owned stores.

In addition to the results provided in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America ("GAAP"), the Company provides the following non-GAAP measurements. 

•System sales, System sales excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation ("FX"), and, in 2019, System sales excluding FX and the impact of the 53rd week for our U.S. subsidiaries and certain international subsidiaries that operate on a weekly periodic calendar. System sales include the results of all restaurants regardless of ownership, including Company-owned and franchise restaurants. Sales at franchise restaurants typically generate ongoing franchise and license fees for the Company at a rate of 3% to 6% of sales. Franchise restaurant sales are not included in Company sales on the Consolidated Statements of Income; however, the franchise and license fees derived from franchise restaurants are included in the Company’s revenues. We believe System sales growth is useful to investors as a significant indicator of the overall strength of our business as it incorporates all of our significant revenue drivers, Company and franchise same-store sales as well as net unit growth.

•Diluted Earnings Per Share excluding Special Items (as defined below);

•Effective Tax Rate excluding Special Items; 

•Core Operating Profit and, in 2019, Core Operating Profit excluding the impact of the 53rd week. Core Operating Profit excludes Special Items and FX and we use Core Operating Profit for the purposes of evaluating performance internally.

These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather, the Company believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP measurements provide additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.

27

Special Items are not included in any of our Division segment results as the Company does not believe they are indicative of our ongoing operations due to their size and/or nature. Our chief operating decision maker does not consider the impact of Special Items when assessing segment performance.

Certain non-GAAP measurements are presented excluding the impact of FX. These amounts are derived by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. We believe the elimination of the FX impact provides better year-to-year comparability without the distortion of foreign currency fluctuations.

For 2019 we provided Core Operating Profit excluding the impact of the 53rd week and System sales excluding the impact of the 53rd week to further enhance the comparability given the 53rd week that was part of our fiscal calendar in 2019.

Results of Operations

Summary

All comparisons within this summary are versus the same period a year ago and unless otherwise stated include the impact of a 53rd week in 2019. For discussion of our results of operations for 2018 compared to 2017, refer to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 21, 2019.

For 2019, GAAP diluted EPS decreased 12% to $4.14 per share, and diluted EPS, excluding Special Items, increased 12% to $3.55 per share. 

2019 financial highlights:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Additionally:

•Adjusting the prior year base to include units added as a result of our fourth quarter 2018 strategic alliance with Telepizza, system sales growth, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and 53rd week, would have been 7% and 2% for Worldwide and the Pizza Hut Division, respectively. 

•During the year, we opened 2,040 net new units for 4% net new unit growth.

•During the year, we refranchised 25 restaurants and sold certain restaurant assets associated with existing franchise restaurants to the franchisee for total pre-tax proceeds of $110 million. We recorded net refranchising gains of $37 million related to these transactions.

•During the year, we repurchased 7.8 million shares totaling $810 million at an average price of $104. 

28

•During the year, we recognized pre-tax expense of $77 million related to the change in fair value of our investment in Grubhub, which resulted in a negative ($0.19) impact to diluted EPS on the year.

•Foreign currency translation impacted Divisional Operating Profit unfavorably for the year by $46 million.

•Our effective tax rate for the year was 5.7% and our effective tax rate, excluding Special Items, was 19.8%.

Worldwide

GAAP Results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)See Note 3 for the number of shares used in this calculation.

Performance Metrics

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)2018 unit growth includes units added as a result of our fourth quarter 2018 strategic alliance with Telepizza.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

29

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

30

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

31

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)We have reflected as Special Items those refranchising gains and losses that were recorded in connection with or prior to our previously announced plans to have at least 98% franchise restaurant ownership by the end of 2018. As such, refranchising gains and losses recorded during 2019 as Special Items primarily include gains or losses associated with sales of underlying real estate associated with stores that were franchised as of December 31, 2018 or true-ups to refranchising gains and losses recorded prior to December 31, 2018.

During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recorded net refranchising gains of $12 million, $540 million and $1,083 million, respectively, that have been reflected as Special Items.

(b)In the second quarter of 2019 we recorded charges of $8 million and $2 million to Other (income) expense and Interest expense, net, respectively, related to cash payments in excess of our recorded liability to settle contingent consideration 

32

associated with our 2013 acquisition of the KFC Turkey and Pizza Hut Turkey businesses. Consistent with prior adjustments to the recorded contingent consideration we have reflected this as a Special Item.

(c)Tax Expense on Special Items was determined based upon the impact of the nature, as well as the jurisdiction of the respective individual components within Special Items. Additionally, we increased our Income tax provision by $34 million in the fourth quarter of 2019 to record a reserve against and by $19 million in the second quarter of 2018 to correct an error related to the tax recorded on a prior year divestiture, the effects of which were previously recorded as a Special Item.

(d)During the year ended December 31, 2019 we completed intercompany transfers of certain intellectual property rights. As a result of the transfer of certain of these rights, largely to subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, we received a step-up in tax basis to current fair value under applicable tax law. To the extent this step-up in basis will be amortizable against future taxable income, we recognized a one-time deferred tax benefit of $226 million as a Special Item in the year ended December 31, 2019. See Note 17 for further discussion.

(e)In 2018, we recorded a $35 million decrease related to our provisional tax expense recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 associated with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 ("Tax Act") that was reported as a Special Item. We also recorded a Special Items tax benefit of $31 million in 2018 related to 2018 U.S. foreign tax credits that became realizable directly as a result of the impact of deemed repatriation tax expense associated with the Tax Act. We recognized $434 million in our 2017 Income tax provision that was reported as a Special Item as a result of the December 22, 2017 enactment of the Tax Act. 

(f)The foreign currency impact on reported Operating Profit is presented in relation only to the immediately preceding year presented. When determining applicable Core Operating Profit Growth percentages, the Core Operating Profit for the current year should be compared to the prior year Operating Profit, prior to adjustment for the prior year FX impact.

(g)Company sales represents sales from our Company-operated stores as presented on our Consolidated Statements of Income.

(h)The foreign currency impact on System sales is presented in relation only to the immediately preceding year presented. When determining applicable System sales growth percentages, the System sales excluding FX for the current year should be compared to the prior year System sales prior to adjustment for the prior year FX impact.

Items Impacting Reported Results and/or Expected to Impact Future Results

The following items impacted reported results in 2019 and/or 2018 and/or are expected to impact future results. See also the Detail of Special Items section of this M&DA for other items similarly impacting results.

Extra Week in 2019

Fiscal 2019 included a 53rd week for all of our U.S. and certain international subsidiaries that operate on a period calendar. See Note 2 for additional details related to our fiscal calendar. The following table summarizes the estimated impact of the 53rd week on Revenues and Operating Profit for the year ended December 31, 2019. The 53rd week in 2019 favorably impacted Diluted EPS by $0.05 per share.

33

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Impact of Coronavirus Outbreak 

Since the beginning of 2020, the novel coronavirus outbreak in mainland China has significantly impacted the operations of our largest master franchisee, Yum China, who pays us a continuing fee of 3% on system sales of our Concepts in mainland China. These continuing fees represented approximately 20% of the KFC Division and 16% of the PH Division operating profits in the year ended December 31, 2019. Through the date of the filing of this Form 10-K, Yum China has experienced widespread store closures and significant sales declines as a result of the coronavirus. Additionally, other nearby franchisees, such as those in Hong Kong and Taiwan, have experienced significant sales declines as well. While our Concepts outside of China have not experienced the same levels of same-store sales declines or store closures to date that Yum China has experienced, there can be no assurance that the impacts of the coronavirus will not have a material, adverse impact on our and our franchisees’ results on a more widespread basis. The coronavirus situation is ongoing and its dynamic nature makes it difficult to forecast any impacts on the Company’s 2020 results with any certainty. However, as of the date of this filing we expect our results for the quarter ending March 31, 2020 to be significantly impacted with potential continuing, adverse impacts beyond March 31, 2020.

Pizza Hut U.S. Franchisee Issues

During the year ended December 31, 2019 the Pizza Hut Division recorded $22 million in bad debt expense primarily associated with the nearly $600 million in continuing and initial fees earned in 2019 from franchisees. This represented an increase of $12 million versus the bad debt provision within the Division for the year ended December 31, 2018. The increased bad debt was largely attributable to a small number of U.S. franchisees who are facing financial challenges due to unit-level economics that have been pressured by wage increases and recent U.S. same-store sales declines of 1% in 2019, including a decline of 4% in the fourth quarter of 2019. Additionally, certain Pizza Hut U.S. franchisees are burdened by high debt service levels.

We continue to believe that the move of the Pizza Hut U.S. system to a more delivery-focused and modern estate will optimize our ability to grow the Pizza Hut U.S. system going forward. However, we could see impacts to our near-term results as we work through transitions of the estate and of certain franchise stores to new franchisees. These impacts could include expense related to further bad debts and payments we may be required to make with regard to franchisee lease obligations for which we remain secondarily liable. Additionally, Pizza Hut U.S. system sales could be negatively impacted by decreased system advertising spend due to lower franchisee contributions and closures of underperforming units, including certain units that are largely dine-in focused. Given the fluid nature of issues surrounding our Pizza Hut U.S. franchisees, in particular surrounding our largest Pizza Hut U.S. franchisee who owns approximately 1,225 units or 17% of the Pizza Hut U.S. system as of December 31, 2019, the potential impact to the Company’s 2020 results is difficult to forecast.

Refranchising Initiatives

During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recorded net refranchising gains of $37 million, $540 million and $1,083 million, respectively. We have reflected those refranchising gains and losses that were recorded in connection with or prior to our previously announced plans to have at least 98% franchise restaurant ownership by the end of 2018 as Special Items. In 

34

2019 net refranchising gains reflected as Special Items included $12 million associated with sales of underlying real estate associated with stores that were franchised as of December 31, 2018 or true-ups to refranchising gains and losses recorded prior to December 31, 2018. All net refranchising gains recorded in 2018 and 2017 were reflected as Special Items. 

Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2019 we recorded net refranchising gains of $25 million that have not been reflected as Special Items. These net gains relate to the refranchising of restaurants in 2019 that were not part of and arose subsequent to our aforementioned plans to achieve 98% franchise ownership.

Investment in Grubhub

For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 we recognized pre-tax expense of $77 million and pre-tax income of $14 million, respectively, related to changes in fair value in our investment in Grubhub, Inc. ("Grubhub"). See Note 4 for further discussion of our investment in Grubhub. 

Telepizza Strategic Alliance

On December 30, 2018, the Company consummated a strategic alliance with Telepizza Group S.A. (“Telepizza”), the largest non U.S.-based pizza delivery company in the world, to be the master franchisee of Pizza Hut in Latin America and portions of Europe. The key terms of the alliance are set forth below:

•In Spain and Portugal Telepizza will continue operating the Telepizza brand and will oversee franchisees operating Pizza Hut branded restaurants

•In Latin America (excluding Brazil), the Caribbean and Switzerland, Telepizza will progressively convert its existing restaurants to the Pizza Hut brand and oversee franchisees operating Pizza Hut branded restaurants

•Telepizza will manage supply chain logistics for the entire master franchise territory and will become an authorized supplier of Pizza Hut branded restaurants

•Across the regions covered by the master franchise agreement, Telepizza will target opening at least 1,300 new units over the next ten years and 2,550 units in total over 20 years

As a result of the alliance we added approximately 1,300 Telepizza units to our Pizza Hut Division unit count on December 30, 2018. In total approximately 2,300 Pizza Hut and Telepizza units are subject to the master franchise agreement as of December 31, 2019. 

Based upon our ongoing and active maintenance of the Pizza Hut intellectual property as well as Telepizza’s active involvement in supply chain management and their role as a master franchisee, both parties are exposed to significant risks and rewards depending on the commercial success of the alliance. As a result, the alliance has been identified as a collaborative arrangement and upon consummation of the alliance no amounts were recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements (other than insignificant success fees that were paid to third-party advisors). Subsequent to consummation of the deal, for all Pizza Hut restaurants that are part of the alliance, we are receiving a continuing fee of 3.5% of restaurant sales. Likewise, for most Telepizza restaurants that are part of the alliance we are receiving an alliance fee of 3.5% of restaurant sales. These fees are being recorded as Franchise and property revenues within our Consolidated Statement of Income when the related sales occur, consistent with our recognition of continuing fees for all other restaurants subject to our franchise agreements. These fees are reduced by a sales-based credit that decreases over time and, potentially, certain incentive payments if development or conversion targets are met. Previously, the existing Pizza Hut restaurants that are now subject to the master franchise agreement with Telepizza generally paid a continuing fee of 6% of restaurant sales consistent with our standard International franchise agreement terms. The impact to Operating Profit for the year ended December 31, 2019 as a result of the strategic alliance was not significant. System Sales growth in 2019, excluding foreign currency and 53rd week, was approximately 1 and 5 percentage points higher for Worldwide and the Pizza Hut Division, respectively as a result of the strategic alliance. Additionally, net new unit growth in 2018 was approximately 3 and 8 percentage points higher for Worldwide and the Pizza Hut Division, respectively, as a result of the strategic alliance.

KFC United Kingdom ("UK") Supply Availability Issues

On February 14, 2018, we and our franchisees transitioned to a new distributor for the products supplied to our approximately 900 KFCs in the United Kingdom and Ireland (those restaurants accounted for approximately 3% of YUM’s global system sales in the year ended December 31, 2018). In connection with this transition, certain of the restaurants experienced supply availability issues which resulted in store closures or stores operating under a limited menu. Beginning mid-May 2018, all restaurants opened for business, offering their full menus, with advertising beginning at the end of May. On a full-year basis in 2018, we estimated the negative impact to Core Operating Profit growth was 2 percentage points for KFC Division and 1 percentage point for YUM, 

35

respectively, and the negative impact to same-store sales growth was 50 basis points for KFC Division and 25 basis points for YUM, respectively, as a result of these supply availability issues.

KFC Division

The KFC Division has 24,104 units, 83% of which are located outside the U.S. Additionally, 99% of the KFC Division units were operated by franchisees as of the end of 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Company sales and Restaurant margin percentage

In 2019, the decrease in Company sales, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and 53rd week, was primarily driven by refranchising offset by company same-store sales growth of 5%, including lapping the prior year impact of supply interruptions in our KFC UK business.

The 2019 increase in Restaurant margin percentage was driven by same-store sales growth, including lapping the prior year impact of supply interruptions in our KFC UK business, and refranchising.

Franchise and property revenues

In 2019, the increase in Franchise and property revenues, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and 53rd week, was driven by international net new unit growth, franchise same-store sales growth of 4%, including lapping the prior year impact of supply interruptions in our KFC UK business, and refranchising.

36

G&A 

In 2019, the increase in G&A, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and 53rd week, was driven by higher expenses related to our deferred and incentive compensation programs, partially offset by the positive impact of YUM's Strategic Transformation Initiatives, including reductions in G&A directly attributable to refranchising.

Operating Profit

In 2019, the increase in Operating Profit, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and 53rd week, was driven by net new unit growth, same-store sales growth and lapping the prior year impact of supply interruptions in our KFC UK business.

Pizza Hut Division

The Pizza Hut Division has 18,703 units, 61% of which are located outside the U.S. The Pizza Hut Division uses multiple distribution channels including delivery, dine-in and express (e.g. airports) and includes units operating under both the Pizza Hut and Telepizza brands. Additionally, over 99% of the Pizza Hut Division units were operated by franchisees as of the end of 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) 2018 unit growth includes units added as a result of our fourth quarter 2018 strategic alliance with Telepizza.

37

Company sales

In 2019, the decrease in Company sales, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and 53rd week, was driven by refranchising. Company same-store sales growth was 2%.

Franchise and property revenues

In 2019, the increase in Franchise and property revenues, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and 53rd week, was driven by net new unit growth. Franchise same-store sales were flat.

G&A 

In 2019, the increase in G&A, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and 53rd week, was driven by higher expenses related to our deferred compensation program, partially offset the positive impact of YUM’s Strategic Transformation Initiatives, including reductions in G&A directly attributable to refranchising.

Operating Profit

In 2019, the increase in Operating Profit, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and 53rd week, was driven by lapping advertising costs in the prior year associated with the Pizza Hut Transformation Agreement (See Note 4), higher profit associated with providing incremental technology-related services, net new unit growth and refranchising, partially offset by higher provisions for past due receivables and higher G&A.

Taco Bell Division

The Taco Bell Division has 7,363 units, 92% of which are in the U.S. The Company-owned 7% of the Taco Bell units in the U.S. as of the end of 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

38

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Company sales and Restaurant margin percentage

In 2019, the decrease in Company Sales, excluding the impact of 53rd week, was driven by refranchising partially offset by company same-store sales growth of 4% and net new unit growth. 

In 2019, the increase in restaurant margin percentage was driven by same-store sales growth partially offset by higher labor and commodity costs.

Franchise and property revenues

In 2019, the increase in Franchise and property revenues, excluding the impact of 53rd week, was driven by franchise same-store sales growth of 5%, refranchising and net new unit growth.

G&A 

In 2019, the increase in G&A, excluding the impact of 53rd week, was driven by higher expenses related to our deferred and incentive compensation programs and the unfavorable impact of lapping prior year forfeitures related to share based compensation awards, partially offset by the positive impact of YUM’s Strategic Transformation Initiatives.

Operating Profit

In 2019, the increase in Operating Profit, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and 53rd week, was driven by same-store sales growth and net new unit growth, partially offset by refranchising and higher restaurant operating costs.

Corporate & Unallocated

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Corporate and unallocated G&A

In 2019, the increase in Corporate and unallocated G&A expenses was driven by higher expenses related to our deferred and incentive compensation programs and higher professional fees related to strategic projects, the largest of which was related to global tax reforms, partially offset by lapping costs associated with YUM’s Strategic Transformation Initiatives (See Note 4) and current year G&A reductions due to the impact of YUM’s Strategic Transformation Initiatives.

39

Unallocated restaurant costs

Unallocated restaurant costs represents the cessation of depreciation on held for sale assets that were not allocated to the Division segments. 

Unallocated Franchise and property expenses

Unallocated Franchise and property expenses reflect charges related to the Pizza Hut U.S. Transformation Agreement and/or the KFC U.S. Acceleration Agreement. See Note 4.

Interest expense, net

The increase in Interest expense, net for 2019 was driven by increased outstanding borrowings. See Note 10.

Consolidated Cash Flows

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,315 million in 2019 compared to $1,176 million in 2018. The increase was largely driven by an increase in Operating profit before Special Items and lower compensation payments, partially offset by an increase in interest payments.

Net cash used in investing activities was $88 million in 2019 compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $313 million in 2018. The change was primarily driven by lower refranchising proceeds in the current year, partially offset by the lapping of our prior year investment in Grubhub common stock and the acquisition of QuikOrder, LLC, an online ordering software and service provider for the restaurant industry ("QuikOrder") (See Note 9).

Net cash used in financing activities was $938 million in 2019 compared to $2,620 million in 2018. The decrease was primarily driven by lower share repurchases and higher net borrowings in 2019.

Consolidated Financial Condition

Our Consolidated Balance Sheet was impacted by the adoption of Topic 842 (See Note 2) and deferred tax assets recorded related to the intercompany transfers of certain intellectual property rights (See Note 17). 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated by operations and availability under our revolving facilities. As of December 31, 2019, we had Cash and cash equivalents of $605 million. Cash and cash equivalents increased from $292 million at December 31, 2018 due to the issuance of $800 million aggregate principal amount of YUM Senior Unsecured Notes in September 2019. We have historically generated substantial cash flows from the operations of our Company-owned stores and from our extensive franchise operations, which require a limited YUM investment. Our annual operating cash flows have historically been in excess of $1 billion. Decreases in operating cash flows from the operation of fewer Company-owned stores due to refranchising in recent years have been offset, and are expected to continue to be offset, with savings generated from decreased capital investment and G&A required to support company operations. To the extent operating cash flows plus other sources of cash such as refranchising proceeds do not cover our anticipated cash needs, we maintain a $1 billion Revolving Facility under our existing Credit Agreement that was undrawn as of year end 2019. We believe that our existing cash on hand, cash from operations and availability under our Revolving Facility, will be sufficient to fund our operations, anticipated capital expenditures and debt repayment obligations over the next twelve months.

From 2017 through 2019, we returned a cumulative $6.5 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and cash dividends. We funded these shareholder returns through a combination of refranchising proceeds, free cash flow generation and maintenance of our ~5.0x EBITDA leverage. From the fourth quarter of 2016 to the end of 2018, we generated total gross refranchising proceeds of $2.8 billion in connection with our initiative to increase franchise ownership to 98%. Going forward, we anticipate refranchising proceeds to be much more limited and any shareholder returns we choose to make to be funded through cash flows from operations and leverage maintenance. 

On January 6, 2020, we announced our definitive agreement pursuant to which the Company will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of The Habit Restaurants, Inc. (“Habit”) for $14 per share in cash or a total of approximately $375 million. The transaction is subject to approval by Habit’s stockholders and other customary closing conditions. The transaction is expected to be completed by the end of the first-quarter of 2020. 

40

Additionally, if the transaction is consummated, Habit will make payment to certain of its former shareholders pursuant to an existing Tax Receivable Agreement in the aggregate amount of approximately $53 million. The amount of this payment in excess of Habit’s cash necessary at closing for normal working capital purposes, in addition to customary transaction fees and expenses, will be liabilities funded by the Company.

We intend to fund all amounts for the acquisition of Habit using cash on hand and available borrowing capacity under our Revolving Facility.

Our balance sheet often reflects a working capital deficit, which is not uncommon in our industry and is also historically common for YUM. Our royalty receivables from franchisees are generally due within 30 days of the period in which the related sales occur and Company sales are paid in cash or by credit card (which is quickly converted into cash). Substantial amounts of cash received have historically been either returned to shareholders or invested in new restaurant assets which are non-current in nature. As part of our working capital strategy, we negotiate favorable credit terms with vendors and, as a result, our on-hand inventory turns faster than the related short-term liabilities. Accordingly, it is not unusual for current liabilities to exceed current assets. We believe such a deficit has no significant impact on our liquidity or operations.

Debt Instruments

As of December 31, 2019, approximately 92%, including the impact of interest rate swaps, of our $10.6 billion of total debt outstanding, excluding finance leases, is fixed with an effective overall interest rate of approximately 4.7%. We are managing a capital structure which is levered in-line with our target of ~5.0x EBITDA, and which we believe provides an attractive balance between optimized interest rates, duration and flexibility with diversified sources of liquidity and maturities spread over multiple years. We have credit ratings of BB (Standard & Poor's)/Ba2 (Moody's) with a balance sheet consistent with highly-levered peer restaurant franchise companies. 

The following table summarizes the future maturities of our outstanding long-term debt, excluding finance leases and debt issuance costs and discounts, as of December 31, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Securitization Notes include four senior secured notes issued by Taco Bell Funding, LLC (the “Issuer”) totaling $2.9 billion with fixed interest rates ranging from 4.318% to 4.970%. The Securitization Notes are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Issuer and the Issuer’s special purpose, wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively with the Issuer, the "Securitization Entities"), and include a lien on all existing and future U.S. Taco Bell franchise and license agreements and the royalties payable thereunder, existing and future U.S. Taco Bell intellectual property, certain transaction accounts and a pledge of the equity interests in asset-owning Securitization Entities. The Securitization Notes contain cross-default provisions whereby the failure to pay principal on any outstanding Securitization Notes will constitute an event of default under any other Securitization Notes.

Credit Agreement includes senior secured credit facilities consisting of a $463 million Term Loan A facility (the “Term Loan A Facility"), a $1.9 billion Term Loan B facility (the “Term Loan B Facility”) and a $1.0 billion revolving facility (the “Revolving Facility”) issued by KFC Holding Co., Pizza Hut Holdings, LLC and Taco Bell of America, LLC, each of which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, as co-borrowers (the "Borrowers"). Our Revolving Facility was undrawn as of December 31, 2019. The interest rates applicable to the Credit Agreement range from 1.25% to 1.75% plus LIBOR or from 0.25% to 0.75% plus the Base Rate, at the Borrowers’ election, based upon the total net leverage ratio of the Borrowers and the Specified Guarantors (as defined in the Credit Agreement). Our Term Loan A Facility and Term Loan B Facility contain cross-default provisions whereby the failure to pay principal of or otherwise perform any agreement or condition under indebtedness of certain subsidiaries with a principal amount in excess of $100 million will constitute an event of default under the Credit Agreement. 

Subsidiary Senior Unsecured Notes include three senior unsecured notes issued by the Borrowers totaling $2.9 billion with fixed interest rates ranging from 4.75% to 5.25%. Our Subsidiary Senior Unsecured Notes contain cross-default provisions whereby 

41

the acceleration of the maturity of the indebtedness of certain subsidiaries with a principal amount in excess of $100 million or the failure to pay principal of such indebtedness will constitute an event of default under the Subsidiary Senior Unsecured Notes.

YUM Senior Unsecured Notes include six senior unsecured notes issued by Yum! Brands, Inc. totaling $2.4 billion with fixed interest rates ranging from 3.75% to 6.88% including $800 million aggregate principal amount of 4.75% notes due January 15, 2030 that we issued on September 11, 2019. See Note 10 for additional details. Our YUM Senior Unsecured Notes contain cross-default provisions whereby the acceleration of the maturity of any of our indebtedness or the failure to pay principal of such indebtedness will constitute an event of default under the YUM Senior Unsecured Notes unless such indebtedness is discharged, or the acceleration of the maturity of that indebtedness is annulled, within 30 days after notice. 

See Note 10 for details on the Securitization Notes, the Credit Agreement, Subsidiary Senior Unsecured Notes and YUM Senior Unsecured Notes.

Contractual Obligations

Our significant contractual obligations and payments as of December 31, 2019 included:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Amounts include maturities of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2019 and expected interest payments on those outstanding amounts on a nominal basis. The estimated interest payments related to the variable rate portion of our debt is based on current LIBOR interest rates. See Note 10.

(b)These obligations, which are shown on a nominal basis and represent the non-cancellable term of the lease, relate primarily to approximately 600 Company-owned restaurants and 400 units that we sublease land, building or both to our franchisees. See Note 11.

(c)Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. We have excluded agreements that are cancellable without penalty. Purchase obligations relate primarily to marketing, information technology and supply agreements.

(d)Includes actuarially-determined timing of payments from our most significant unfunded pension plan as well as scheduled payments from our deferred compensation plan and other unfunded benefit plans where payment dates are determinable. This table excludes $40 million of future benefit payments for deferred compensation and other unfunded benefit plans to be paid upon separation of employee's service or retirement from the company, as we cannot reasonably estimate the dates of these future cash payments. Other amounts include a cash tax obligation related to an income tax audit expected to conclude in 2020 and anticipated investments related to the Pizza Hut U.S. Transformation Agreement (See Note 4).

We sponsor noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering certain salaried and hourly employees, the most significant of which are in the U.S. and UK. The most significant of the U.S. plans, the YUM Retirement Plan (the “Plan”), is funded while benefits from our other significant U.S. plan are paid by the Company as incurred (see footnote (d) above). Our funding policy for the Plan is to contribute annually amounts that will at least equal the minimum amounts required to comply with the Pension Protection Act of 2006. However, additional voluntary contributions are made from time-to-time to improve the Plan’s funded status. At December 31, 2019 the Plan was in a net underfunded position of $44 million. The UK pension plans were in a net overfunded position of $82 million at our 2019 measurement date. 

We do not anticipate making any significant contributions to the Plan in 2020. Investment performance and corporate bond rates have a significant effect on our net funding position as they drive our asset balances and discount rate assumptions. Future changes 

42

in investment performance and corporate bond rates could impact our funded status and the timing and amounts of required contributions in 2020 and beyond.

Our post-retirement health care plan in the U.S. is not required to be funded in advance, but is pay as you go. We made post-retirement benefit payments of $5 million in 2019 and no future funding amounts are included in the contractual obligations table. See Note 14. 

We have excluded from the contractual obligations table payments we may make for exposures for which we are self-insured, including workers’ compensation, employment practices liability, general liability, automobile liability, product liability and property losses (collectively “property and casualty losses”) and employee healthcare and long-term disability claims. The majority of our recorded liability for self-insured property and casualty losses and employee healthcare and long-term disability claims represents estimated reserves for incurred claims that have yet to be filed or settled.

We have not included in the contractual obligations table $56 million of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits relating to various tax positions we have taken. These liabilities may increase or decrease over time as a result of tax examinations, and given the status of the examinations, we cannot reliably estimate the period of any cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. 

As discussed further in Note 19, on January 29, 2020 we received an order from the Special Director of the Directorate of Enforcement in India imposing a penalty on Yum! Restaurants India Private Limited of approximately Indian Rupee 11 billion, or approximately $156 million, primarily relating to alleged violations of operating conditions imposed in 1993 and 1994. We have been advised by external counsel that the order is flawed and that several options for appeal exist. We deny liability and intend to continue vigorously defending this matter. We do not consider the risk of any significant loss arising from this order to be probable and thus have not recorded any reserve at December 31, 2019. It is possible that we could be required to post a deposit for some or all portion of the penalty amount as we pursue appeal options. We have not included any potential deposit amount in the contractual obligations table as we cannot reliably estimate the timing or amount of any such deposit that may be required.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

See the Lease Guarantees section of Note 19 for discussion of our off-balance sheet arrangements.

New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted 

In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a standard that requires measurement and recognition of expected versus incurred credit losses for financial assets held. The standard is effective for the Company prospectively in our first quarter of fiscal 2020 and any impact upon adoption will be reflected through a cumulative-effect adjustment to Accumulated deficit as of the beginning of 2020. We do not anticipate the impact of adopting this standard will be material to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our reported results are impacted by the application of certain accounting policies that require us to make subjective or complex judgments. These judgments involve estimations of the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may significantly impact our quarterly or annual results of operations or financial condition. Changes in the estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition and cash flows in future years. A description of what we consider to be our most significant critical accounting policies follows. 

Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets

We review long-lived assets of restaurants we intend to continue operating as Company restaurants (primarily PP&E, right-of-use operating lease assets and allocated intangible assets subject to amortization) annually for impairment, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a restaurant may not be recoverable. We evaluate recoverability based on the restaurant’s forecasted undiscounted cash flows, which incorporate our best estimate of sales growth and margin improvement based upon our plans for the unit and actual results at comparable restaurants. For restaurant assets that are deemed to not be recoverable, we write-down the impaired restaurant to its estimated fair value. Key assumptions in the determination of fair value are the future after-tax cash flows of the restaurant, which are reduced by future royalties a franchisee would pay and a discount rate. The after-tax cash flows incorporate reasonable sales growth and margin improvement assumptions that would be used by a franchisee in the determination of a purchase price for the restaurant. Estimates of future cash flows are highly subjective judgments and can be significantly impacted by changes in the business or economic conditions.

43

We perform an impairment evaluation at a restaurant group level when it is more likely than not that we will refranchise restaurants as a group. Expected net sales proceeds are generally based on actual bids from the buyer, if available, or anticipated bids given the discounted projected after-tax cash flows for the group of restaurants. Historically, these anticipated bids have been reasonably accurate estimations of the proceeds ultimately received. The after-tax cash flows used in determining the anticipated bids incorporate reasonable assumptions we believe a franchisee would make such as sales growth and margin improvement as well as expectations as to the useful lives of the restaurant assets. These after-tax cash flows also include a deduction for the anticipated, future royalties we would receive under a franchise agreement with terms substantially at market entered into simultaneously with the refranchising transaction. 

The discount rate used in the fair value calculations is our estimate of the required rate of return that a franchisee would expect to receive when purchasing a similar restaurant or groups of restaurants and the related long-lived assets. The discount rate incorporates rates of returns for historical refranchising market transactions and is commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the forecasted cash flows.

Impairment of Goodwill

We evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of the beginning of our fourth quarter or more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicates impairment might exist. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment by determining whether the fair value of our reporting units exceed their carrying values. Our reporting units are our business units (which are aligned based on geography) in our KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell Divisions. Fair value is the price a willing buyer would pay for the reporting unit, and is generally estimated using discounted expected future after-tax cash flows from franchise royalties and Company-owned restaurant operations, if any.

Future cash flow estimates and the discount rate are the key assumptions when estimating the fair value of a reporting unit. Future cash flows are based on growth expectations relative to recent historical performance and incorporate sales growth (from net new units or same-sales growth) and margin improvement (for those reporting units which include Company-owned restaurant operations) assumptions that we believe a third-party buyer would assume when determining a purchase price for the reporting unit. Any margin improvement assumptions that factor into the discounted cash flows are highly correlated with sales growth as cash flow growth can be achieved through various interrelated strategies such as product pricing and restaurant productivity initiatives. The discount rate is our estimate of the required rate of return that a third-party buyer would expect to receive when purchasing a business from us that constitutes a reporting unit. We believe the discount rate is commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the forecasted cash flows.

The fair values of all our reporting units with goodwill balances were substantially in excess of their respective carrying values as of the 2019 goodwill testing date.

When we refranchise restaurants, we include goodwill in the carrying amount of the restaurants disposed of based on the relative fair values of the portion of the reporting unit disposed of in the refranchising versus the portion of the reporting unit that will be retained. The fair value of the portion of the reporting unit disposed of in a refranchising is determined by reference to the discounted value of the future cash flows expected to be generated by the restaurant and retained by the franchisee, which include a deduction for the anticipated, future royalties the franchisee will pay us associated with the franchise agreement entered into simultaneously with the refranchising transaction. Appropriate adjustments are made to the fair value determinations if such franchise agreement is determined to not be at prevailing market rates. When determining whether such franchise agreement is at prevailing market rates our primary consideration is consistency with the terms of our current franchise agreements both within the country that the restaurants are being refranchised in and around the world. The Company believes consistency in royalty rates as a percentage of sales is appropriate as the Company and franchisee share in the impact of near-term fluctuations in sales results with the acknowledgment that over the long-term the royalty rate represents an appropriate rate for both parties.

The discounted value of the future cash flows expected to be generated by the restaurant and retained by the franchisee is reduced by future royalties the franchisee will pay the Company. The Company thus considers the fair value of future royalties to be received under the franchise agreement as fair value retained in its determination of the goodwill to be written off when refranchising. Others may consider the fair value of these future royalties as fair value disposed of and thus would conclude that a larger percentage of a reporting unit’s fair value is disposed of in a refranchising transaction.

During 2019, refranchising activity completed by the Company was limited and the write-off of goodwill associated with these transactions was less than $1 million.

See Note 2 for a further discussion of our policies regarding goodwill.

44

Pension Plans

Certain of our employees are covered under defined benefit pension plans. Our two most significant plans are in the U.S. and combined had a projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) of $1,015 million and a fair value of plan assets of $886 million at December 31, 2019.

The PBO reflects the actuarial present value of all benefits earned to date by employees and incorporates assumptions as to future compensation levels. Due to the relatively long time frame over which benefits earned to date are expected to be paid, our PBOs are highly sensitive to changes in discount rates. For our U.S. plans, we measured our PBOs using a discount rate of 3.50% at December 31, 2019. The primary basis for this discount rate determination is a model that consists of a hypothetical portfolio of ten or more corporate debt instruments rated Aa or higher by Moody’s or Standard & Poor's ("S&P") with cash flows that mirror our expected benefit payment cash flows under the plans. We exclude from the model those corporate debt instruments flagged by Moody’s or S&P for a potential downgrade (if the potential downgrade would result in a rating below Aa by both Moody's and S&P) and bonds with yields that were two standard deviations or more above the mean. In considering possible bond portfolios, the model allows the bond cash flows for a particular year to exceed the expected benefit payment cash flows for that year. Such excesses are assumed to be reinvested at appropriate one-year forward rates and used to meet the benefit payment cash flows in a future year. The weighted-average yield of this hypothetical portfolio was used to arrive at an appropriate discount rate. We also ensure that changes in the discount rate as compared to the prior year are consistent with the overall change in prevailing market rates and make adjustments as necessary. A 50 basis-point increase in this discount rate would have decreased these U.S. plans’ PBOs by approximately $64 million at our measurement date. Conversely, a 50 basis-point decrease in this discount rate would have increased our U.S. plans’ PBOs by approximately $71 million at our measurement date.

The net periodic benefit cost we will record in 2020 is also impacted by the discount rate, as well as the long-term rates of return on plan assets and mortality assumptions we selected at our measurement date. We expect net periodic benefit cost plus expected pension settlement charges for our U.S. plans to increase approximately $10 million in 2020. A 50 basis-point change in our discount rate assumption at our 2019 measurement date would impact our 2020 U.S. net periodic benefit cost by approximately $6 million. The impacts of changes in net periodic benefit costs are reflected primarily in Other pension (income) expense.

Our estimated long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets is based upon the weighted-average of historical and expected future returns for each asset category. Our expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets, for purposes of determining 2020 pension expense, at December 31, 2019 was 5.50%, net of administrative and investment fees paid from plan assets. We believe this rate is appropriate given the composition of our plan assets and historical market returns thereon. A 100 basis point change in our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption would impact our 2020 U.S. net periodic benefit cost by approximately $8 million. Additionally, every 100 basis point variation in actual return on plan assets versus our expected return of 5.50% will impact our unrecognized pre-tax actuarial net loss by approximately $8 million. 

A decrease in discount rates over time has largely contributed to an unrecognized pre-tax actuarial net loss of $118 million included in AOCI for these U.S. plans at December 31, 2019. We will recognize approximately $14 million of such loss in net periodic benefit cost in 2020 versus $1 million recognized in 2019. See Note 14. 

Income Taxes 

At December 31, 2019, we had valuation allowances of approximately $787 million to reduce our $1,517 million of deferred tax assets to amounts that are more likely than not to be realized. The net deferred tax assets primarily relate to temporary differences in profitable U.S. federal, state and foreign jurisdictions and net operating losses in certain foreign jurisdictions, the majority of which do not expire. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, we consider future taxable income in the various jurisdictions as well as carryforward periods and restrictions on usage. The estimation of future taxable income in these jurisdictions and our resulting ability to utilize deferred tax assets can significantly change based on future events, including our determinations as to feasibility of certain tax planning strategies and refranchising plans. Thus, recorded valuation allowances may be subject to material future changes.

As a matter of course, we are regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We recognize the benefit of positions taken or expected to be taken in our tax returns in our Income tax provision when it is more likely than not that the position would be sustained upon examination by these tax authorities. A recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon settlement. At December 31, 2019, we had $188 million of unrecognized tax benefits, $8 million of which are temporary in nature and, if recognized, would not impact the effective tax rate. We evaluate unrecognized tax benefits, including interest thereon, on a quarterly basis to ensure that they have been appropriately adjusted for events, including audit settlements, which may impact our ultimate payment for such exposures.

45

The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act included a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, and as a result, previously unremitted earnings for which no U.S. deferred tax liability had been provided have now been subject to U.S. tax. Our cash currently held overseas is primarily limited to that necessary to fund working capital requirements. Thus, we have not provided taxes on our foreign unremitted earnings, including U.S. state income and foreign withholding taxes, as we believe they are indefinitely reinvested. See Note 17 for a further discussion of our Income taxes.

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.