falseIngersoll-Rand plc000146625800014662582020-02-142020-02-14 

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, DC 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): February 14, 2020 

INGERSOLL-RAND PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

170/175 Lakeview Dr.

Airside Business Park

Swords, Co. Dublin 

Ireland 11111   

 (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) 

+(353) (0) 18707400 

(Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code) 

(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report) 

  Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:   

  ☒

    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)   

  ☐

    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)   

  ☐

    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))   

  ☐

    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))    

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (17 CFR §230.405) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (17 CFR §240.12b-2). 

Emerging growth company ☐ 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐ 

  Item 8.01   Other Events.    

On February 14, 2020, Ingersoll-Rand plc (“Ingersoll Rand”) issued a press release announcing a record date of February 24, 2020 for the previously announced spin-off of Ingersoll Rand’s industrial segment. Subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, Ingersoll Rand will distribute all of the shares of common stock of its wholly owned subsidiary, Ingersoll-Rand U.S. HoldCo, Inc. (“Ingersoll Rand Industrial”), to Ingersoll Rand shareholders as of the record date by means of a pro rata distribution. Immediately following the spin-off, Ingersoll Rand Industrial will merge with a subsidiary of Gardner Denver Holdings, Inc. (“Gardner Denver”). In the merger, each share of Ingersoll Rand Industrial common stock will be converted into the right to receive a number of shares of Gardner Denver common stock determined in accordance with the merger agreement. 

The spin-off and merger are expected to be completed on February 29, 2020, subject to certain remaining conditions including the approval by the stockholders of Gardner Denver. 

A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. 

Additional Information and Where to Find It 

In connection with the proposed transaction, Gardner Denver and Ingersoll Rand Industrial have filed registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) registering shares of Gardner Denver common stock and Ingersoll Rand Industrial common stock in connection with the proposed transaction, which were declared effective by the SEC on January 16, 2020. Gardner Denver has also filed a proxy statement, which has been sent to the Gardner Denver shareholders in connection with their vote required in connection with the proposed transaction. Ingersoll Rand shareholders are urged to read the prospectus and / or information statement that are included in the registration statements and any other relevant documents when they become available, and Gardner Denver shareholders are urged to read the proxy statement and any other relevant documents when they become available, because they will contain important information about Gardner Denver, Ingersoll Rand Industrial and the proposed transaction. The proxy statement, prospectus and/or information statement and other documents relating to the proposed transaction (when they become available) can be obtained free of charge from the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. The proxy statement, prospectus and/or information statement and other documents (when they are available) are also available free of charge on Ingersoll Rand’s website at http://ir.ingersollrand.com/investors/ or on Gardner Denver’s website at https://investors.gardnerdenver.com/. 

No Offer or Solicitation 

This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 

This communication is not a solicitation of a proxy from any security holder of Gardner Denver. However, Ingersoll Rand, Gardner Denver and certain of their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders of Gardner Denver in connection with the proposed transaction under the rules of the SEC. Information about the directors and executive officers of Ingersoll Rand may be found in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 12, 2019 and its definitive proxy statement relating to its 2019 Annual Meeting of Shareholders filed with the SEC on April 23, 2019. Information about the directors and executive officers of Gardner Denver may be found in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 27, 2019, and its definitive proxy statement relating to its 2019 Annual Meeting of Shareholders filed with the SEC on March 26, 2019. 

Forward-Looking Statements 

This communication contains “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the proposed transaction between Ingersoll Rand and Gardner Denver. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words “believe,” “project,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “outlook,” “target,” “endeavor,” “seek,” “predict,” “intend,” “strategy,” “plan,” “may,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “will be,” “will continue,” “will likely result,” or the negative thereof or variations thereon or similar terminology generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. All statements, other than historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding the expected timing and structure of the proposed transaction, the ability of the parties to complete the proposed transaction, the expected benefits of the proposed transaction, including future financial and operating results and strategic benefits, the tax consequences of the proposed transaction, and the combined company’s plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, legal, economic and regulatory conditions, and any assumptions underlying any of the foregoing, are forward looking statements. 

These forward-looking statements are based on Gardner Denver’s and Ingersoll Rand’s current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from Gardner Denver’s and Ingersoll Rand’s current expectations. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The inclusion of such statements should not be regarded as a representation that such plans, estimates or expectations will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such plans, estimates or expectations include, among others, (1) that one or more closing conditions to the transaction may not be satisfied or waived, on a timely basis or otherwise, including that the required approval by the stockholders of Gardner Denver may not be obtained; (2) the risk that the proposed transaction may not be completed on the terms or in the time frame expected by Ingersoll Rand or Gardner Denver, or at all, (3) unexpected costs, charges or expenses resulting from the proposed transaction, (4) uncertainty of the expected financial performance of the combined company following completion of the proposed transaction; (5) failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the proposed transaction, including as a result of delay in completing the proposed transaction or integrating the businesses of Gardner Denver and Ingersoll Rand Industrial, or at all, (6) the ability of the combined company to implement its business strategy; (7) difficulties and delays in the combined company and Ingersoll Rand achieving revenue and cost synergies; (8) inability of the combined company and Ingersoll Rand to retain and hire key personnel; (9) the occurrence of any event that could give rise to termination of the proposed transaction; (10) the risk that stockholder litigation in connection with the proposed transaction or other settlements or investigations may affect the timing or occurrence of the proposed transaction or result in significant costs of defense, indemnification and liability; (11) evolving legal, regulatory and tax regimes; (12) changes in general economic and/or industry specific conditions; (13) actions by third parties, including government agencies; and (14) other risk factors detailed from time to time in Ingersoll Rand’s and Gardner Denver’s reports filed with the SEC, including Ingersoll Rand’s and Gardner Denver’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC, which are available on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. The foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive. 

Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this communication. Neither Ingersoll Rand nor Gardner Denver undertakes any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or development, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements. 

  Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.    

(d) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]