Exhibit  

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 

LabCorp Contacts:          

Investors: Clarissa Willett - 336-436-5076 

Investor@LabCorp.com 

Media: Pattie Kushner - 336-436-8263 

Media@LabCorp.com 

LABCORP TO ANNOUNCE FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2019 FINANCIAL RESULTS 

ON FEBRUARY 13, 2020 

BURLINGTON, N.C., Jan. 13, 2020 - LabCorp® (NYSE: LH) will release its fourth quarter and full year 2019 financial results before the market opens on Thursday, Feb. 13, 2020, and then will host a conference call and webcast beginning at 9:00 a.m. EDT to discuss the results. The earnings release and accompanying financial information will be posted on the LabCorp Investor Relations website. 

Interested parties can access the conference call by dialing 1-844-634-1444 within the U.S. and Canada, or 1-615-247-0253 internationally, using the passcode 8663007. In addition, a real-time webcast of the conference call will be available on the LabCorp Investor Relations website. 

An audio replay of the conference call will be available from 1:00 p.m. EDT on Feb. 13, 2020, until 12:30 a.m. EDT on Feb. 27, 2020, by dialing 1-855-859-2056 within the U.S. and Canada, or 1-404-537-3406 internationally, using the passcode 8663007. The webcast of the conference call will be archived and accessible through Jan. 29, 2021, on the LabCorp Investor Relations website. 

About LabCorp 

LabCorp (NYSE: LH), an S&P 500 company, is a leading global life sciences company that is deeply integrated in guiding patient care, providing comprehensive clinical laboratory and end-to-end drug development services. With a mission to improve health and improve lives, LabCorp delivers world-class diagnostic solutions, brings innovative medicines to patients faster, and uses technology to improve the delivery of care. LabCorp reported revenue of more than $11 billion in 2018. To learn more about LabCorp, visit www.LabCorp.com, and to learn more about Covance Drug Development, visit www.Covance.com.

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This press release contains forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements with respect to the impact of various factors on operating and financial results, future business strategies, expected savings and synergies, and the opportunities for future growth. Each of the forward-looking statements is subject to change based on various important factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, including without limitation, competitive actions and other unforeseen changes and general uncertainties in the marketplace, changes in government regulations, including healthcare reform, customer purchasing decisions, including changes in payer regulations or policies, other adverse actions of governmental and third-party payers, changes in testing guidelines or recommendations, the effect of public opinion on the Company’s reputation, adverse results in material litigation matters, the impact of changes in tax laws and regulations, failure to maintain or develop customer relationships, our ability to develop or acquire new products and adapt to technological changes, failure in information technology, systems or data security, adverse weather conditions, employee relations, and the effect of exchange rate fluctuations. These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect the Company’s ability to implement the Company’s business strategy and actual results could differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements. The Company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if its expectations change. All forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Further information on potential factors, risks and uncertainties that could affect operating and financial results is included in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q, including in each case under the heading RISK FACTORS, and in the Company’s other filings with the SEC. The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with a review of the Company’s filings with the SEC including the 

information in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, and subsequent Forms 10-Q, under the heading MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 

# # #