Document   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 8-K

CURRENT REPORT

Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):February 1, 2018

Aetna Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

151 Farmington Avenue, Hartford, CT06156

(Address of principal executive offices)(Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:(860) 273-0123

Former name or former address, if changed since last report:N/A

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:

þ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)

o Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter).

Emerging growth company o

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o

Section 8 – Other Events

Item 8.01 Other Events. 

As previously disclosed, on January 2, 2018, Aetna Inc. (“Aetna”) filed its premerger notification and report with the U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the “HSR Act”). As a result, the waiting period under the HSR Act with respect to the transactions contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) pursuant to which CVS Health Corporation (“CVS Health”) has agreed to acquire Aetna was scheduled to expire at 11:59 p.m. on February 1, 2018, unless extended by a request for additional information or terminated earlier.

On February 1, 2018, Aetna and CVS Health each received a request for additional information (the “Second Request”) from the DOJ in connection with the DOJ’s review of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement.

Issuance of the Second Request extends the waiting period under the HSR Act until 30 days after both Aetna and CVS Health have substantially complied with the Second Request or such later time as the parties may agree with the DOJ, unless the waiting period is terminated earlier by the DOJ. Aetna and CVS Health have been cooperating with the DOJ staff since shortly after the announcement of the Merger Agreement and are continuing to cooperate with the DOJ staff in its review of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. 

Aetna continues to project that the proposed transaction will be completed in the second half of 2018.

Completion of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement remains subject to the approval and adoption of the Merger Agreement by Aetna shareholders, the approval of the issuance of shares of CVS Health common stock as contemplated by the Merger Agreement by CVS Health stockholders, the early termination or expiration of the waiting period under the HSR Act, and the satisfaction or waiver of the other closing conditions specified in the Merger Agreement, including certain regulatory approvals. Aetna and CVS Health have each scheduled a shareholder or stockholder meeting, as applicable, on March 20, 2018, to seek the respective approvals of their shareholders and stockholders, as applicable.

No Offer or Solicitation

This Current Report on Form 8-K is for informational purposes only and not intended to and does not constitute an offer to subscribe for, buy or sell, the solicitation of an offer to subscribe for, buy or sell or an invitation to subscribe for, buy or sell any securities or the solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction pursuant to or in connection with the proposed transaction or otherwise, nor shall there be any sale, issuance or transfer of securities in any jurisdiction in contravention of applicable law. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and otherwise in accordance with applicable law.

Additional Information and Where to Find It

In connection with the proposed transaction between CVS Health Corporation (“CVS Health”) and Aetna Inc. (“Aetna”), on January 26, 2018, CVS Health filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) an amendment to the registration statement on Form S-4 that was originally filed on January 4, 2018. The registration statement includes a preliminary joint proxy statement of CVS Health and Aetna that also constitutes a preliminary prospectus of CVS Health, which will be mailed to stockholders of CVS Health and shareholders of Aetna once the registration statement becomes effective and the joint proxy statement/prospectus is in definitive form. The registration statement is not yet effective. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF CVS HEALTH AND AETNA ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED OR THAT WILL BE FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN OR WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the registration statement and the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by CVS Health or Aetna through the website maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by CVS Health are available free of charge within the Investors section of CVS Health’s Web site at http://www.cvshealth.com/investors or by contacting CVS Health’s Investor Relations Department at 800-201-0938. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Aetna are available free of charge on Aetna’s internet website at http://www.Aetna.com or by contacting Aetna’s Investor Relations Department at 860-273-0896.

Participants in the Solicitation

CVS Health, Aetna, their respective directors and certain of their respective executive officers may be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information about the directors and executive officers of CVS Health is set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, which was filed with the SEC on February 9, 2017, its proxy statement for its 2017 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on 

March 31, 2017, and certain of its Current Reports on Form 8-K. Information about the directors and executive officers of Aetna is set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, which was filed with the SEC on February 17, 2017, its proxy statement for its 2017 annual meeting of shareholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 7, 2017, and certain of its Current Reports on Form 8-K. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitations and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, are contained in the preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus and will be contained in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. You can generally identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “can,” “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “evaluate,” “expect,” “explore,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “intend,” “likely,” “may,” “might,” “outlook,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,” “probable,” “project,” “seek,” “should,” “view,” or “will,” or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond Aetna’s control.

Statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K that are forward-looking, including the projected date that CVS Health’s proposed acquisition of Aetna (the “proposed transaction”) will be completed and the extent of, and the time necessary to obtain, the regulatory approvals required for the proposed transaction, are based on Aetna’s management’s estimates, assumptions and projections, and are subject to significant uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond Aetna’s control. Important risk factors could cause actual future events to differ materially from those currently expected by Aetna’s management, including, but not limited to: the risk that a regulatory approval that may be required for the proposed transaction is delayed, is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated, the risk that a condition to the closing of the proposed transaction may not be satisfied and the outcome of litigation related to the proposed transaction.

Additional information concerning these risks, uncertainties and assumptions can be found in CVS Health’s and Aetna’s respective filings with the SEC, including the risk factors discussed in “Item 1.A. Risk Factors” in CVS Health’s and Aetna’s most recent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, as updated by their Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.

No assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do occur, what impact they will have on the results of operations, financial condition or cash flows of Aetna. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on Aetna’s forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are and will be based on management’s then-current views and assumptions regarding future events and operating performance and are applicable only as of the dates of such statements. Aetna does not assume any duty to update or revise forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, as of any future date.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 Aetna Inc.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]