UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) 

of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) January 8, 2018 

ConocoPhillips 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  600 North Dairy Ashford

 Houston, Texas       77079   

  (Address of principal executive offices)       (Zip Code)     

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code (281) 293-1000 

Not Applicable 

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report) 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): 

o Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

o Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))  

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter). 

Emerging growth company o 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o 

Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition. 

The information set forth in Item 7.01 below is incorporated by reference herein. 

Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure. 

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Legislation”) was enacted. The Tax Legislation significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax law by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate, implementing a territorial tax system and imposing a one-time deemed repatriation tax on untaxed accumulated foreign earnings. 

ConocoPhillips (the “Company”) is currently assessing the changes under the Tax Legislation and its overall impact to the Company. Based on a preliminary assessment, the Company estimates that these changes will positively impact its future after-tax earnings in the U.S., primarily due to the lower federal statutory tax rate. Currently, the Company expects to recognize a non-cash tax benefit in the fourth quarter of 2017, primarily from a revaluation of deferred taxes at the lower 21 percent federal statutory rate. The Company does not expect to incur a tax cost related to the one-time repatriation of accumulated foreign earnings. 

The ultimate impact of the Tax Legislation may differ from these estimates, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations and assumptions the Company has made or additional regulatory or accounting guidance that may be issued with respect to the Tax Legislation. 

The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing made by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing. 

This report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements relate to future events and anticipated results of operations, business strategies, and other aspects of our operations or operating results. In many cases you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,” “should,” “will,” “expect,” “objective,” “projection,” “forecast,” “goal,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “effort,” “target” and other similar words. However, the absence of these words does not mean that the statements are not forward-looking. Where, in any forward-looking statement, the company expresses an expectation or belief as to future results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, there can be no assurance that such expectation or belief will result or be achieved. The actual results of operations can and will be affected by a variety of risks and other matters including, but not limited to business disruptions following pending transactions including the diversion of management time and attention; changes in commodity prices; changes in expected levels of oil and gas reserves or production; operating hazards, drilling risks, unsuccessful exploratory activities; difficulties in developing new products and manufacturing processes; unexpected cost increases, including those with the pending transactions; international monetary conditions; potential liability for remedial actions under existing or future environmental regulations; potential liability resulting from pending or future litigation; limited access to capital or significantly higher cost of capital related to illiquidity or uncertainty in the domestic or international financial markets; general domestic and international economic and political conditions; and changes in tax, environmental and other laws applicable to our business,  including changes resulting from the implementation and interpretation of the Tax Legislation. Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include other economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting our business generally as set forth in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Unless legally required, ConocoPhillips undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 

2 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

      CONOCOPHILLIPS   

      /s/ Glenda M. Schwarz   

      Glenda M. Schwarz   

      Vice President and Controller   

  January 8, 2018        

3