Exhibit 99.1  

 E*TRADE Financial Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2017 Results  

 E*TRADE Bank reduces Tier 1 leverage ratio threshold to 7.0%  

 Announces Acquisition of More Than One Million Retail Brokerage Accounts with $18 Billion in Assets  

 NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 25, 2018--E*TRADE Financial Corporation (NASDAQ:ETFC):  

 Fourth Quarter Results   

 Net income of $129 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, which includes net expenses of $44 million, or $0.16, related to tax reform and other items(1)  

 Total net revenue of $637 million  

 Operating margin of 47 percent; adjusted operating margin of 43 percent(2)  

 Consolidated balance sheet assets of $63.4 billion; average interest-earning assets of $57.4 billion; net interest margin of 292 basis points  

 Daily Average Revenue Trades (DARTs) of 236,000, a Company record(3); 29 percent in derivatives  

 Customer margin balances of $9.1 billion, a Company record(3)  

 Net new brokerage accounts of 46,000  

 Net new brokerage assets of $3.2 billion; end of period total customer assets of $383.3 billion  

 Managed products of $5.4 billion  

 Utilized $175 million to repurchase 3.9 million shares at an average price of $44.97   

 Full Year 2017 Results   

 Net income of $614 million; net income available to common shareholders of $589 million(1)  

 Diluted earnings per common share of $2.15, which includes net expenses of $13 million, or $0.04, related to tax reform and other items(1)  

 Total net revenue of $2.4 billion  

 Operating margin of 45 percent; adjusted operating margin of 40 percent(2)  

 DARTs of 214,000, a Company record(3); 30 percent in derivatives, a Company record(3)  

 Net new brokerage accounts of 172,000  

 Net new brokerage assets of $12.2 billion, a Company record(3)  

 Utilized $362 million to repurchase 8.5 million shares at an average price of $42.62   

 E*TRADE Financial Corporation (NASDAQ: ETFC) today announced results for its fourth quarter ended December 31, 2017, reporting net income of $129 million, or $0.48 diluted earnings per common share. This compares to $147 million, or $0.49, in the prior quarter, and $127 million, or $0.46, in the fourth quarter of 2016. Total net revenue of $637 million increased from $599 million in the prior quarter and $509 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. Operating margin for the quarter was 47 percent and adjusted operating margin was 43 percent(2) which compares to 37 percent and 42 percent(2) in the prior quarter and 40 percent and 37 percent(2) in the year-ago quarter.  

 The Company recognized $58 million of additional income tax expense in the fourth quarter, due to the federal tax reform enacted on December 22, 2017. This was the result of the reduction in the value of the Company's net deferred tax assets, which ended the year at $251 million.  

 “The fourth quarter results we delivered placed an exclamation mark on an exceptional year, and I am extremely proud of what the team accomplished. Amid a fiercely competitive environment, and unprecedented markets, we were able to stay focused on our efforts and drive results for shareholders. Aided by the best derivatives platform in the industry, and the resurgence of retail engagement, we set annual records across DARTs, derivatives mix, net new brokerage assets, and margin balances. We also elevated our iconic brand back to the top of the class where it belongs,” said Karl Roessner, Chief Executive Officer. “Our financial results reflect our focus and drive, as we delivered commanding revenue growth, while expanding our operating margin and purposefully deploying capital to the benefit of our shareholders—growing our balance sheet to end the year at our targeted size, and progressing at pace on our share repurchase program. As we look to 2018 and beyond, we have enhanced and optimized E*TRADE to continue to navigate ever-changing market forces, and to continue to deliver exceptional value and a best-in-class experience for traders and investors alike. For 2018, I look forward to another strong year focused on growth and on generating value for our shareholders.”  

 E*TRADE Financial Corporation announced today it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire more than one million retail brokerage accounts with $18 billion in customer assets from Capital One Financial Corporation for a purchase price of $170 million. As of December 31, 2017 these accounts carried $1.9 billion in customer cash, as well as $0.2 billion in customer margin balances.  

 “The attractiveness of this acquisition is directly attributable to the power and flexibility of our business model,” said Karl Roessner, Chief Executive Officer. “Our inherent scalability positions us to efficiently bring on these accounts and materially expand our US household penetration. As the deal closes, we look forward to introducing these new customers to the depth, breadth, and best-in-class nature of our products and services, and to deepening our relationship with them.”  

 E*TRADE expects the transaction to be relatively neutral to earnings in 2018 and approximately $0.06 accretive in 2019 when full run-rate synergies are expected. The Company intends to fund the transaction with existing corporate cash. The transaction is expected to close during the third quarter of 2018, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals.  

 E*TRADE was advised by Credit Suisse and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. Capital One Financial was advised by Centerview Partners, Berkshire Partners, and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.  

 Historical metrics and financials can be found on the E*TRADE Financial corporate website at about.etrade.com.  

 The Company will host a conference call to discuss the results beginning at 5 p.m. ET today. This conference call will be available to domestic participants by dialing (800) 272 9104 while international participants should dial +1 (303) 223 4371. A live audio webcast and replay of this conference call will also be available at about.etrade.com.  

 About E*TRADE Financial  

 Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC, Member FINRA/SIPC. Investment advisory services are offered through E*TRADE Capital Management, LLC, a Registered Investment Adviser. Commodity futures and options futures products and services are offered by E*TRADE Futures LLC, Member NFA. Banking products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries. E*TRADE Securities LLC, E*TRADE Capital Management, LLC, E*TRADE Futures LLC, and E*TRADE Bank are separate but affiliated companies. More information is available at www.etrade.com. ETFC-E  

 Important Notices  

 E*TRADE Financial, E*TRADE, the E*TRADE logo, and OptionsHouse are trademarks or registered trademarks of E*TRADE Financial Corporation.  

 Forward-Looking Statements  

 The statements contained in this press release that are forward looking, including statements regarding the Company’s proposed transaction with Capital One Financial Corporation and its benefits and timing and the Company's ability to manage changes in the market, continue to deliver quality services, improve its growth during 2018 and beyond and generate value for shareholders, are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws, and are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to: risks related to the proposed transactions with Capital One Financial Corporation and Trust Company of America, including that the closing of one or both of the transactions may not occur or may be delayed, the actual aggregate consideration paid in connection with the proposed transaction with Capital One Financial Corporation, unanticipated restructuring costs may be incurred or undisclosed liabilities assumed, integration plans (including retention of key employees) may not be implemented as anticipated and the expected synergies and other financial benefits from one or both of the transactions may not be realized; macro trends of the economy in general; market volatility and its impact on trading volumes; fluctuations in interest rates; the ability to attract and retain customers and develop new products and services; increased competition; potential system disruptions and security breaches; increased restrictions resulting from financial regulatory reform or changes in the policies of our regulators; adverse developments in litigation or regulatory matters; the timing and duration of, and the amount of shares repurchased and amount of cash expended in connection with, the share repurchase program; and the other factors set forth in our annual, quarterly, and current reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and Form 8-K previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including information in these reports under the caption “Risk Factors”). Any forward-looking statement included in this release speaks only as of the date of this communication; the Company disclaims any obligation to update any information, except as required by law.  

 © 2018 E*TRADE Financial Corporation. All rights reserved.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (a)     Represents interest revenue on securities loaned for the periods presented.   

  (b)     Represents interest expense on securities borrowed for the periods presented.   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (a)     Represents interest revenue on securities loaned for the periods presented.   

  (b)     Represents interest expense on securities borrowed for the periods presented.   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

      (a)     Includes revenue earned on average customer cash held by third parties based on the federal funds rate or LIBOR plus a negotiated spread or other contractual arrangements with the third party institutions.   

 Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures  

 Management believes that adjusting GAAP measures by excluding or including certain items is helpful to investors and analysts who may wish to use some or all of this information to analyze the Company’s current performance, prospects and valuation. Management uses this non-GAAP information internally to evaluate operating performance and in formulating the budget for future periods. Management believes that the non-GAAP measures discussed below are appropriate for evaluating the operating and liquidity performance of the Company.  

 Adjusted Operating Margin  

 Adjusted operating margin is calculated by dividing adjusted income before income taxes by net revenue. Adjusted income before income taxes excludes the provision (benefit) for loan losses and losses on early extinguishment of debt. Management believes that excluding the provision (benefit) for loan losses and losses on early extinguishment of debt from operating margin provides a useful measure of the Company's ongoing operating performance because management excludes it when evaluating operating margin performance. See endnote (2) for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the comparable GAAP measure.  

 Corporate Cash  

 Corporate cash represents cash held at the parent company as well as cash held in certain subsidiaries, not including bank and brokerage subsidiaries, that can distribute cash to the parent company without any regulatory approval or notification. The Company believes that corporate cash is a useful measure of the parent company’s liquidity as it is the primary source of capital above and beyond the capital deployed in regulated subsidiaries. See endnote (6) for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the comparable GAAP measure.  

 Tangible Common Equity Book Value per Share  

 Tangible common equity book value per share represents common shareholders’ equity, which excludes preferred stock, less goodwill and other intangible assets (net of related deferred tax liabilities) divided by common stock outstanding. The Company believes that tangible common equity book value per share is a measure of the Company’s capital strength. See endnote (5) for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the comparable GAAP measure.  

 It is important to note that these non-GAAP measures may involve judgment by management and should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, or superior to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. For additional information on the adjustments to these non-GAAP measures, please see the Company’s financial statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” that will be included in the periodic report the Company expects to file with the SEC with respect to the financial periods discussed herein.  

 ENDNOTES  

 (1) Net income for the quarter of $129 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, includes net expenses of $44 million, or $0.16, related to the following items:   

 $58 million of additional tax expense, or $0.21, related to tax reform  

 $26 million pre-tax, or $0.06, of benefit to provision for loan losses  

 $3 million pre-tax, or $0.01, of costs related to crossing the $50 billion regulatory threshold.   

 Net income available to common shareholders for the year of $589 million, or $2.15 per diluted share, includes net expenses of $13 million, or $0.04, related to the following items:   

 $58 million of additional tax expense, or $0.21, related to tax reform  

 $168 million pre-tax, or $0.37, of benefit to provision for loan losses  

 $58 million pre-tax, or $0.12, of losses on early extinguishment of debt  

 $27 million pre-tax, or $0.06, of costs related to the OptionsHouse integration and crossing the $50 billion regulatory threshold  

 $8 million pre-tax, or $0.02, of additional market data expenses   

 (2) Operating margin is the percentage of net revenue that results in income before income taxes. The percentage is calculated by dividing income before income taxes by total net revenue. The following table provides a reconciliation of GAAP operating margin percentage to non-GAAP adjusted operating margin percentage (dollars in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (3) Records based on the period during which metric has been reported by the Company. Net new brokerage assets of $12.2 billion in 2017 is a record for the Company when compared to organic net asset growth from prior years, excluding one-time inflows related to past acquisitions. For additional information on net new brokerage assets, see Endnote (10).  

 (4) Amounts and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding. For percentage based metrics, the variance represents the current period less the prior period.  

 (5) The following table provides a reconciliation of GAAP common equity book value and common equity book value per share to non-GAAP tangible common equity book value and tangible common equity book value per share at period end (dollars in millions, except per share amounts):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (6) The following table provides a reconciliation of GAAP consolidated cash and equivalents to non-GAAP corporate cash at period end (dollars in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (a)     Reported net of corporate cash on deposit at E*TRADE Bank that is eliminated in consolidation.   

 (7) The brokerage account attrition rate is calculated by dividing attriting brokerage accounts by total brokerage accounts at the previous period end, and is presented on an annualized basis. Attriting brokerage accounts are derived by subtracting net new brokerage accounts from gross new brokerage accounts.  

 (8) Customer margin balances include the following (dollars in billions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (a)     Represents margin receivables held on the balance sheet and customer margin balances held by a third party clearing firm. The balances held by a third party were transferred to E*TRADE Securities during the three months ended September 30, 2017 in connection with the OptionsHouse integration.   

 (9) Customer cash held by third parties is held outside E*TRADE Financial and includes money market funds and sweep deposit accounts at unaffiliated financial institutions and customer cash held by a third party clearing firm. Customer cash held by third parties is not reflected in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet and is not immediately available for liquidity purposes. The following table provides details of customer cash held by third parties (dollars in billions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (a)     During the three months ended September 30, 2017, customer cash held by a third party clearing firm was transferred to E*TRADE Securities in connection with the integration of OptionsHouse.   

 (10) Net new customer assets are total inflows to all new and existing customer accounts less total outflows from all closed and existing customer accounts. The net new banking assets and net new brokerage assets metrics treat asset flows between E*TRADE entities in the same manner as unrelated third party accounts.  

 (11) Includes unpaid principal balances and premiums (discounts).  

 (12) E*TRADE Financial’s capital ratios are calculated as follows and are preliminary for the current period (dollars in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (a)     Under the regulatory guidelines for risk-based capital, on-balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of several broad risk categories according to the obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of any collateral. The aggregate dollar amount in each risk category is then multiplied by the risk weight associated with that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the risk categories are aggregated for determining total risk-weighted assets.   

 (13) E*TRADE Bank’s capital ratios are calculated as follows and are preliminary for the current period (dollars in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (a)     Under the regulatory guidelines for risk-based capital, on-balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of several broad risk categories according to the obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of any collateral. The aggregate dollar amount in each risk category is then multiplied by the risk weight associated with that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the risk categories are aggregated for determining total risk-weighted assets.     

 CONTACT:

E*TRADE Media Relations

646-521-4418

mediainq@etrade.com

or

E*TRADE Investor Relations

646-521-4406

ir@etrade.com