Exhibit 99.1  

 Fortune Brands Reports Sales and EPS for Q4 and Full Year; Provides 2018 Annual Outlook for Continued Growth  

 Highlights from continuing operations:   

 Q4 2017 sales increased 6 percent year-over-year to $1.4 billion with EPS of $0.83; EPS before charges/gains increased 13 percent to $0.80  

 Full-year 2017 sales increased 6 percent with EPS of $3.05; EPS before charges/gains increased 12 percent to $3.08  

 Company expects full-year 2018 EPS before charges/gains to grow to $3.54 - $3.66 on sales growth of 6 - 7 percent   

 DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 1, 2018--Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. (NYSE: FBHS), an industry-leading home and security products company, today announced fourth quarter 2017 results from continuing operations and provided its 2018 annual outlook for sales and earnings per share.  

 “In the fourth quarter our teams drove strong sales growth. Sales momentum built month-to-month throughout the quarter as we overcame a soft October due to storms, and again delivered strong operating margin across all segments,” said Chris Klein, chief executive officer, Fortune Brands. “In the full year 2017, we executed well against our strategy of profitable growth and achieved solid results that continue to reflect healthy consumer demand for our home and security products, despite continued trade labor constraints that can act as a governor on growth. With our consistently solid execution, we are well-positioned for continued strong performance in 2018 as the housing market continues its elongated recovery.”  

 Fourth Quarter 2017  

 For the fourth quarter of 2017, sales were $1.4 billion, an increase of 6 percent over the fourth quarter of 2016. Earnings per share were $0.83, compared to $0.67 in the prior-year quarter. EPS before charges/gains were $0.80, compared to $0.71 the same quarter last year. Operating income was $163.0 million, compared to $166.4 million in the prior-year quarter. Operating income before charges/gains was $186.6 million, compared to $172.8 million the same quarter last year, up 8 percent.  

 For each segment in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared to the prior-year quarter:   

 Plumbing sales increased 10 percent and 9 percent organically driven by strong point-of-sale performance across channels, and share gains in China. Segment operating margin before charges/gains was 20.8 percent.  

 Cabinet sales increased 4 percent led by low double digit growth of in-stock cabinets and vanities, and high single digit growth in builder direct. Segment operating margin before charges/gains was 10.7 percent.  

 Door sales were up 6 percent driven by growth in both the wholesale and retail channels, and operating margin before charges/gains was 14.5 percent, an increase of 120 basis points.  

 Security sales increased 4 percent, driven by strong U.S. retail, safety and international sales. Operating margin before charges/gains was 15.0 percent.   

 Full Year 2017  

 For the full year 2017, sales were $5.3 billion, an increase of 6 percent over 2016. Earnings per share were $3.05 compared to $2.61 in the prior year, and EPS before charges/gains were $3.08 versus $2.75 last year, an increase of 12 percent.  

 “In 2017 we continued to execute our strategy of disciplined, profitable growth as we increased earnings per share 12 percent. Our sales grew 6 percent and our operating margin before charges/gains increased to 13.7 percent, demonstrating that we continue to execute well in a market that is recovering gradually. Overall, we are driving profitable growth across a great portfolio of businesses,” said Klein.  

 “In addition to growing our earnings, we continued to deploy capital in value-creating ways as we bought back $215 million of our shares, spent approximately $140 million on two plumbing acquisitions, and increased our quarterly dividend for the 5th consecutive year. Our balance sheet remained strong during 2017,” said Patrick Hallinan, chief financial officer, Fortune Brands. “As of December 31, 2017, cash was $323 million and debt was $1.5 billion, resulting in net debt to EBITDA of 1.4 times and giving us substantial flexibility to continue to create incremental shareholder value. Additionally, free cash flow was $464 million.”  

 Annual Outlook for 2018  

 The Company’s 2018 annual outlook is based on a U.S. home products market growth assumption of 5 to 7 percent and an assumption of 5 to 6 percent growth for our total global market. The Company expects full-year 2018 sales growth in the range of 6 to 7 percent.  

 The Company expects EPS before charges/gains to be in the range of $3.54 to $3.66, the midpoint of which is 17 percent higher than last year, including the positive impact of a reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate.  

 “We are excited about the new tax legislation. The one-time adjustments we had to make in 2017 were nominal and positive overall, and going forward the impact should be significantly favorable. We estimate our 2018 effective tax rate will be between 24 and 26 percent,” said Klein. “As a large U.S. manufacturer, with a large majority of our sales and employees based in the U.S., we are a clear winner as a result of this change and are better positioned than we were just six weeks ago. We look forward to leveraging our improved position to sell even more products in the most exciting housing market in the world.”  

 “Entering 2018 our annual outlook again calls for strong performance based on improved earnings; a continued focus on disciplined, profitable growth; and the financial flexibility we have to drive incremental growth,” continued Klein. “Although we continue to drive sales and profit growth, I believe we have only begun to test our full value creation potential in this housing market. Additionally, tax reform is a significant positive that will enable us to continue to invest in our businesses, and deploy additional capital to drive long-term shareholder value. We continue to believe we are well-positioned to leverage our structural competitive advantages and drive profitable growth well into the future.”  

 About Fortune Brands  

 Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. (NYSE: FBHS), headquartered in Deerfield, Ill., creates products and services that fulfill the dreams of homeowners and help people feel more secure. The Company’s four operating segments are Cabinets, Plumbing, Doors and Security. Its trusted brands include more than a dozen core brands under MasterBrand Cabinets; Moen, Perrin & Rowe, Riobel, ROHL, Shaws and Victoria + Albert under the Global Plumbing Group (GPG); Therma-Tru entry door systems; and Master Lock and SentrySafe security products under The Master Lock Company. Fortune Brands holds market leadership positions in all of its segments. Fortune Brands is part of the S&P 500 Index. For more information, please visit www.FBHS.com.  

 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

 This press release contains certain “forward-looking statements” regarding business strategies, market potential, future financial performance, the potential of our categories and brands, potential impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, and other matters. Statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words “believes,” “expects,” “estimates,” “plans,” “look to,” “outlook,” and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “should,” “would,” “may” and “could” are generally forward-looking in nature and not historical facts. Where, in any forward-looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future results or events, such expectation or belief is based on the current plans and expectations of our management. Although we believe that these statements are based on reasonable assumptions, they are subject to numerous factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those indicated in such statements. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including the factors discussed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made as of the date hereof, and except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update, amend or clarify any forward-looking statements to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release.  

 Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information  

 This press release includes measures not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), such as diluted earnings per share before charges/gains, operating income before charges/gains, net debt to EBITDA, operating margin before charges/gains and free cash flow. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measure derived in accordance with GAAP and may also be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies. Reconciliations of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures, and reasons for the Company’s use of these measures, are presented in the attached pages.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 * Free cash flow is cash flow from operations calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") less net capital expenditures (capital expenditures less proceeds from the sale of assets including property, plant and equipment, and the proceeds from the exercise of stock options). Free cash flow does not include adjustments for certain non-discretionary cash flows such as mandatory debt repayments. Free cash flow is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that free cash flow provides investors with helpful supplemental information about the Company's ability to fund internal growth, make acquisitions, repay debt and related interest, pay dividends and repurchase common stock. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 DILUTED EPS BEFORE CHARGES/GAINS RECONCILIATION  

 For the three months ended December 31, 2017, diluted EPS before charges/gains is net income from continuing operations, net of tax including the impact from noncontrolling interests calculated on a diluted per-share basis excluding $17.7 million ($12.5 million after tax or $0.08 per diluted share) of restructuring and other charges, actuarial losses associated with our defined benefit plans of $0.8 million ($0.6 million after tax or $0.01 per diluted share), asset impairments of $12.1 million ($7.9 million after tax or $0.05 per diluted share) and a net benefit related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 of $25.7 million ($0.17 per diluted share).  

 For the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, diluted EPS before charges/gains is net income from continuing operations, net of tax including the impact from noncontrolling interests calculated on a diluted per-share basis excluding $23.0 million ($16.3 million after tax or $0.10 per diluted share) of restructuring and other charges, asset impairments of $15.3 million ($11.1 million after tax or $0.07 per diluted share), the loss on sale of product line of $2.4 million ($2.5 million after tax or $0.02 per diluted share), the impact of income from actuarial gains associated with our defined benefit plans of $0.5 million ($0.3 million after tax) and a net benefit related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 of $25.7 million ($0.16 per diluted share).  

 For the three months ended December 31, 2016, diluted EPS before charges/gains is income from continuing operations, net of tax and including the impact from noncontrolling interests calculated on a diluted per-share basis excluding $6.4 million ($4.8 million after tax or $0.03 per diluted share) of restructuring and other charges and expense related to a tax item of $1.5 million ($0.01 per diluted share).  

 For the twelve months ended December 31, 2016, diluted EPS before charges/gains is income from continuing operations, net of tax and including the impact from noncontrolling interests calculated on a diluted per-share basis excluding $23.2 million ($16.5 million after tax or $0.10 per diluted share) of restructuring and other charges, the impact of the write-off of prepaid debt issuance cost of $1.3 million ($0.8 million after tax or $0.01 per diluted share), expense related to tax items of $3.1 million ($0.02 per diluted share), and actuarial losses of $1.9 million ($1.3 million after tax or $0.01 per diluted share).  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 RECONCILIATION OF FULL YEAR 2018 EARNINGS GUIDANCE TO GAAP  

 The Company is targeting diluted EPS before charges/gains from continuing operations to be in the range of $3.54 to $3.66 per share. For the full year, on a GAAP basis, the Company is targeting diluted EPS from continuing operations to be in the range of $3.44 to $3.56 per share. Reconciliation of non-GAAP diluted EPS guidance to GAAP diluted EPS guidance cannot be provided without unreasonable efforts on a forward-looking basis due to the high variability and low visibility with respect to gains and losses associated with our defined benefit plans and restructuring and other charges, which are excluded from the diluted EPS before charges/gains. In addition, the Company's GAAP EPS range assumes the Company incurs no gains or losses associated with its defined benefit plans during 2018.  

 (c) (e) For definitions of Non-GAAP measures, see Definitions of Terms page  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (1) Tax Items for the three months ended December 31, 2017 reflect a reduction of income taxes of $25.7 million due to the net impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Act”). This net benefit represents the Company’s current best estimate of the impact of the Tax Act and this estimate may be updated in the future as new information becomes available, including the issuance of interpretations by regulatory bodies.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (1) Tax Items for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 reflect a reduction of income taxes of $25.7 million due to the net impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Act”). This net benefit represents the Company’s current best estimate of the impact of the Tax Act and this estimate may be updated in the future as new information becomes available, including the issuance of interpretations by regulatory bodies.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (1) Corporate expenses as derived in accordance with GAAP include the components of defined benefit plan expense other than service cost including actuarial gains and losses.  

 (2) Restructuring charges are costs incurred to implement significant cost reduction initiatives and include workforce reduction costs.  

 (3) "Other charges" represent charges or gains directly related to restructuring initiatives that cannot be reported as restructuring under GAAP. Such costs may include inventory obsolescence provisions, trade receivables allowances from exiting product lines, accelerated depreciation resulting from the closure of facilities, and gains or losses on the sale of previously closed facilities. In addition, other charges include acquisition related inventory step-up expense of $2.0 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 and $3.8 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016 in our Plumbing Segment, $ 1.6 million of compensation expense related to deferred purchase price considerations payable to certain former Victoria + Albert shareholders contingent on their employment through October 2018 and $0.7 million of transaction related U.K. stamp duty resulting from our acquisition of Victoria + Albert.  

 (4) Represents actuarial gains or losses associated with our defined benefit plans. Actuarial gains or losses in a period represent the difference between actual and actuarially assumed experience, principally related to liability discount rates and plan asset returns, as well as other actuarial assumptions including compensation rates, turnover rates, and health care cost trend rates. The Company recognizes actuarial gains or losses immediately in operating income to the extent they cumulatively exceed a “corridor.” The corridor is equal to the greater of 10% of the fair value of plan assets or 10% of a plan’s projected benefit obligation. Actuarial gains or losses are determined at required remeasurement dates which occur at least annually in the fourth quarter. Remeasurements due to plan amendments and settlements may also occur in interim periods during the year. Our operating income before charges/gains reflects our expected rate of return on pension plan assets which in a given period may materially differ from our actual return on plan assets. Our liability discount rates and plan asset returns are based upon difficult to predict fluctuations in global bond and equity markets that are not directly related to the Company’s business. We believe that the exclusion of actuarial gains or losses from operating income before charges/gains provides investors with useful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the business from period to period that may be considered in conjunction with our operating income as measured on a GAAP basis. We present this supplemental information because such actuarial gains or losses may create volatility in our operating income that does not necessarily have an immediate corresponding impact on operating cash flow or the actual compensation and benefits provided to our employees. The table below sets forth additional supplemental information on the Company’s historical actual and expected rate of return on plan assets, as well as discount rates used to value its defined benefit obligations:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Operating margin is calculated as operating income derived in accordance with GAAP divided by GAAP Net Sales. Before charges/gains operating margin is operating income derived in accordance with GAAP excluding restructuring and other charges, loss on the sale of product line and asset impairments, and for the total Company, the impact of income and expense from actuarial gains or losses associated with our defined benefit plans recorded in the Corporate segment, divided by GAAP net sales. Before charges/gains operating margin is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to evaluate the returns generated by FBHS and its business segments. Management believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the Company from period to period. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Net sales excluding acquisitions is Plumbing net sales derived in accordance with GAAP excluding Shaws and Victoria + Albert. Management uses this measure to evaluate the overall performance of the Plumbing segment and believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the segment from period to period. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.  

 Definitions of Terms: Non-GAAP Measures  

 (a) Operating income before charges/gains is operating income derived in accordance with GAAP excluding restructuring and other charges, the impact of income and expense from actuarial gains or losses associated with our defined benefit plans, asset impairment charges and the loss on the sale of product line. Operating income before charges/gains is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to evaluate the returns generated by FBHS and its business segments. Management believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the Company from period to period. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.  

 (b) Defined benefit plan income includes the components of defined benefit plan expense other than service costs. It further excludes actuarial gains or losses.  

 (c) Diluted EPS before charges/gains is income from continuing operations, net of tax, less noncontrolling interests calculated on a diluted per-share basis excluding restructuring and other charges, the impact of income and expense from actuarial gains or losses associated with our defined benefit plans, asset impairment charges, the loss on the sale of product line, write-off of prepaid debt issuance costs and tax items. Diluted EPS before charges/gains is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to evaluate the overall performance of the Company and believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the Company from period to period. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.  

 (d) EBITDA before charges/gains is income from continuing operations, net of tax, derived in accordance with GAAP excluding restructuring and other charges, the impact of income and expense from actuarial gains or losses associated with our defined benefit plans, depreciation, asset impairment charges, the loss on sale of product line, amortization of intangible assets, interest expense, and income taxes. EBITDA before charges/gains is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to assess returns generated by FBHS. Management believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information about the Company's ability to fund internal growth, make acquisitions and repay debt and related interest. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.  

 (e) Asset impairment charges for the three months ended December 31, 2017, represent an impairment of a cost investment in a developmental stage home security company classified in other expense and an impairment of a long-lived Corporate asset classified in selling, general and administrative expenses. In addition, asset impairments for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, include impairments related to our decision during the first quarter of 2017 to sell the Field ID product line.  

 CONTACT:

Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc.

INVESTOR and MEDIA CONTACT:

Kaveh Bakhtiari

847-484-4573

kaveh.bakhtiari@fbhs.com