Exhibit   

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 22, 2018

Contact: Laura Ulbrandt (212) 460-1900

LEUCADIA NATIONAL CORPORATION

ANNOUNCES FOURTH QUARTER 2017 RESULTS

New York, New York, February 22, 2018--Leucadia National Corporation (NYSE: LUK) today announced its financial results for the three and twelve month periods ended December 31, 2017. Including the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("the Tax Act"), income before income taxes was $291.0 million and net loss attributable to Leucadia National Corporation common shareholders was $271.6 million, or $0.74 per diluted share for the three month period, and income before income taxes was $1,013.8 million and net income attributable to Leucadia National Corporation common shareholders was $167.4 million, or $0.45 per diluted share for the twelve month period. Net income for both the three and twelve month periods was reduced by non-cash charges related to the Tax Act, including $415.0 million to revalue our deferred tax assets and a toll charge of $35.5 million on the deemed repatriation of net unremitted foreign earnings. Excluding the impact of the Tax Act, net income attributable to Leucadia National Corporation common shareholders would have been $178.9 million, or $0.48 per diluted share for the three month period, and $617.9 million, or $1.65 per diluted share for the twelve month period. 

Rich Handler, CEO of Leucadia, and Brian Friedman, President of Leucadia, said: "We are pleased with fourth quarter results that bring us to a strong finish for 2017. Our two largest businesses, Jefferies and National Beef, have made remarkable progress. Each delivered record results for the year, generating $528 million and $407 million in pre-tax income, respectively. Additionally, the vast bulk of our other portfolio companies performed well in 2017, either by generating a strong bottom line or, such as is the cases of HRG, Linkem and our energy holdings, by continuing along their paths towards enhanced value creation. We are starting to reap the benefits we originally envisioned in the combination of Leucadia and Jefferies, and have established good momentum toward our long-term goals."

Leucadia's Letter to Shareholders is attached to this release and available now on our website at www.Leucadia.com. 

In addition, the Company announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend equal to $0.10 per Leucadia common share payable on March 30, 2018 to record holders of Leucadia common shares on March 19, 2018.

* * * *

More information on the Company’s results of operations for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2017 will be provided upon filing of the Company’s Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

This press release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include statements about our future and statements that are not historical facts. These forward-looking statements are usually preceded by the words “should,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “will,” or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements may contain expectations regarding revenues, earnings, operations, and other results, and may include statements of future performance, plans, and objectives. Forward-looking statements also include statements pertaining to our strategies for future development of our businesses and products. Forward-looking statements represent only our belief regarding future events, many of which by their nature are inherently uncertain. It is possible that the actual results may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results indicated in these forward-looking statements. Information regarding important factors, including Risk Factors that could cause actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from those in our forward-looking statements is contained in reports we file with the SEC. You should read and interpret any forward-looking statement together with reports we file with the SEC.

Past performance may not be indicative of future results. Different types of investments involve varying degrees of risk. Therefore, it should not be assumed that future performance of any specific investment or investment strategy will be profitable or equal the corresponding indicated performance level(s).

SUMMARY FOR LEUCADIA NATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

(Unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A summary of results for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A summary of results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table reconciles financial results reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") to non-GAAP financial results. This press release contains non-GAAP financial information to aid investors in viewing our businesses and investments through the eyes of management while facilitating a comparison across historical periods. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) During the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2017, non-cash charges related to the Tax Act, include $415.0 million to revalue our deferred tax assets and a toll charge of $35.5 million on the deemed repatriation of net unremitted foreign earnings.