PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

As used herein, the terms "Company," "AmerisourceBergen," "we," "us," or "our" refer to AmerisourceBergen Corporation, a Delaware corporation.

AmerisourceBergen is one of the largest global pharmaceutical sourcing and distribution services companies, helping both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical and biotech manufacturers improve patient access to products and enhance patient care. We deliver innovative programs and services designed to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the pharmaceutical supply chain in both human and animal health. More specifically, we distribute a comprehensive offering of brand-name, specialty brand-name, and generic pharmaceuticals, over-the-counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, and related services to a wide variety of healthcare providers located in the United States and select global markets, including acute care hospitals and health systems, independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, medical clinics, long-term care and alternate site pharmacies, physician practices, medical and dialysis clinics, veterinarians, and other customers. Additionally, we furnish healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers with an assortment of related services, including data analytics, outcomes research, reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, niche premium logistics services, inventory management, pharmacy automation, pharmacy management, and packaging solutions. 

Industry Overview

Pharmaceutical sales in the United States, as recently estimated by IQVIA, an independent third-party provider of information to the pharmaceutical and healthcare industry, are expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of approximately 4.5% from 2021 through 2026, and the growth rate is dependent, in part, on pharmaceutical manufacturer price increases. In addition to general economic conditions, factors that impact the growth of the pharmaceutical industry in the United States and other industry trends include:

Aging Population. The number of individuals aged 65 and over in the United States is expected to exceed 66 million by 2026 and is the most rapidly growing segment of the population. This age group suffers from more chronic illnesses and disabilities than the rest of the population and accounts for a substantial portion of total healthcare expenditures in the United States.

Introduction of New Pharmaceuticals. Traditional research and development, as well as the advent of new research, production, and delivery methods, such as biotechnology and gene therapy, continue to generate new pharmaceuticals and delivery methods that are more effective in treating diseases. We believe ongoing research and development expenditures by the leading pharmaceutical manufacturers will contribute to continued growth of the industry. In particular, we believe ongoing research and development of biotechnology and other specialty pharmaceutical drugs will provide opportunities for the continued growth of our specialty pharmaceuticals business.

Increased Use of Generic and Biosimilar Pharmaceuticals. A number of patents for widely used brand-name pharmaceutical products will continue to expire during the next several years. In addition, increased emphasis by managed care and other third-party payors on utilization of generics and biosimilars has accelerated their growth. We consider the increase in generic and biosimilar usage a favorable trend because generic and biosimilar pharmaceuticals have historically provided us with a greater gross profit margin opportunity than brand-name products, although their lower prices reduce revenue growth. Generic pharmaceuticals currently account for approximately 90% of the prescription volume in the United States.

Increased Use of Drug Therapies. In response to rising healthcare costs, governmental and private payors have adopted cost containment measures that encourage the use of efficient drug therapies to prevent or treat diseases. While national attention has been focused on the overall increase in aggregate healthcare costs, we believe drug therapy has had a beneficial impact on healthcare costs by reducing expensive surgeries and prolonged hospital stays. Pharmaceuticals currently account for approximately 10% of overall healthcare costs. Pharmaceutical manufacturers' continued emphasis on research and development is expected to result in the continuing introduction of cost-effective drug therapies and new uses for existing drug therapies.

Legislative Developments. In 2010, the federal government enacted major health reform legislation designed to expand access to health insurance, which increased the number of people in the United States who are eligible to be reimbursed for all or a portion of prescription drug costs. The health reform law provides for sweeping changes to Medicare and Medicaid policies (including drug reimbursement policies), expanded disclosure requirements regarding financial arrangements within the healthcare industry, enhanced enforcement authority to prevent fraud and abuse, and new taxes and fees on pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. Subsequent legislation and rules promulgated by government agencies have made additional changes to federal drug payment policies. These policies and other legislative developments (including potential revisions to or 

1

Table of Contents 

repeal of any portions of the health reform legislation) may affect our businesses directly and/or indirectly (see Government Regulation and the risk factor titled Legal, regulatory, and legislative changes with respect to reimbursement, pricing, and contracting may adversely affect our business and results of operations, including through declining reimbursement rates for further details).

COVID-19 Pandemic. In March 2020, the World Health Organization ("WHO") declared a global pandemic attributable to the outbreak and continued spread of COVID-19. In connection with the mitigation and containment procedures recommended by the WHO and imposed by federal, state, and local governmental authorities, we implemented measures designed to keep our employees safe and address business continuity issues at our distribution centers and other locations. We continue to evaluate and plan for the potential effects of any disruption and the related impacts on our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. These items include, but are not limited to, the financial condition of our customers and the realization of accounts receivable, changes in availability and demand for our products and services, changes in operating costs, and delays related to current and future projects. While our operational and financial performance may be significantly impacted by COVID-19, it is not possible for us to predict the duration or magnitude of the outbreak and whether it could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows (see Risk Factor - We face risks related to health epidemics and pandemics, and the ongoing spread of COVID-19 has had adverse effects on our business).

Other economic conditions and certain risk factors could adversely affect our business and prospects (see Item 1A. Risk Factors).

The Company

We serve our customers (healthcare providers and pharmaceutical and biotech manufacturers) through a geographically diverse network of distribution service centers and other operations in the United States and select global markets. In our pharmaceutical distribution businesses, we are typically the primary supplier of pharmaceutical and related products to our healthcare provider customers. We offer a broad range of services to our customers designed to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of their operations, which allow them to improve the delivery of healthcare to patients and to lower overall costs in the pharmaceutical supply channel.

Strategy

Our business strategy is focused on the global pharmaceutical supply channel where we provide distribution and value-added services to healthcare providers (primarily pharmacies, health systems, medical and dialysis clinics, physicians, and veterinarians) and pharmaceutical manufacturers to improve channel efficiencies and patient outcomes. Our strategy is one of driving executional excellence in our core distributions solutions business in the U.S. and Internationally, while also investing in higher margin, high growth adjacencies where we provide solutions to pharmaceutical manufacturers to support the clinical development and commercialization of their therapies and support providers in driving efficiency and effectiveness of their operations. Implementing this disciplined and focused strategy in a seamless and unified way has allowed us to significantly expand our business. We are well positioned to grow revenue and increase operating income through the execution of the following key elements of our business strategy:

•Optimize and Grow U.S. Healthcare Solutions Businesses. We are well positioned in size and market breadth to continue to grow our U.S. Healthcare Solutions businesses as we invest to improve our operating and capital efficiencies. Our U.S. human health distribution businesses, including specialty pharmaceuticals, anchors our growth and position in the pharmaceutical supply channel as we provide superior distribution services and deliver value-added solutions, which improve the efficiency and competitiveness of both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers, thus allowing the pharmaceutical supply channel to better deliver healthcare to patients. 

We are a leader in distribution and services to community oncologists and have leading positions in other physician-administered products. We distribute plasma and other blood products, injectable pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and other specialty products. We are well positioned to service and support biotechnology therapies, including biosimilars, expected to be coming to market in the near future.

We have introduced strategies to enhance our position in the generic marketplace, including our generic product private label program based in Ireland. We source generics globally, offer a value-added generic formulary program to our healthcare provider customers, and monitor our customers' compliance with our generics program. We also provide data and other valuable services to our manufacturer customers.

We offer value-added services and solutions to assist healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers to improve their efficiency and their patient outcomes. Services for manufacturers include: assistance with rapid new 

2

Table of Contents 

product launches, promotional and marketing services to accelerate product sales, product data reporting, market access and health economics consulting, patient support programs, and logistical support.

Our provider solutions include: our Good Neighbor Pharmacy® program, which enables independent community pharmacies to compete more effectively through pharmaceutical benefit and merchandising programs; Elevate Provider Network®, our managed care network, which connects our retail pharmacy customers to payor plans throughout the country and is one of the largest in the United States; generic product purchasing and private label services; hospital pharmacy consulting designed to improve operational efficiencies; and packaging solutions for institutional and retail healthcare providers. We also offer services that optimize patient access and provide purchasing power to providers.

We believe we have one of the lowest operating cost structures among all pharmaceutical distributors. Our robust distribution facility network includes a national distribution center in Columbus, OH, which offers pharmaceutical manufacturers a single shipping destination. We continue to seek opportunities to achieve increased productivity and operating income gains as we invest in and continue to implement warehouse automation technology, adopt "best practices" in warehousing activities, and increase operating leverage by increasing volume per full-service distribution facility. We continue to seek opportunities to expand our offerings in our human health distribution businesses. 

Our animal health business sells pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, micro feed ingredients, and various other products to customers in both the companion animal and production animal markets. It also offers its customers a variety of value-added services, including its e-commerce platform, technology management systems, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory management system, equipment procurement consultation, special order fulfillment, and educational seminars, which we believe closely integrate the animal health business with its customers' day-to-day operations and provide them with meaningful incentives to remain customers.

Our consulting service businesses help global pharmaceutical and biotechnology manufacturers commercialize their products. We believe we are one of the largest providers of reimbursement services that assist pharmaceutical companies in supporting access to branded drugs. We also provide outcomes research, contract field staffing, patient assistance and copay assistance programs, adherence programs, risk mitigation services, and other market access programs to pharmaceutical companies.

•Optimize and Grow Our International Healthcare Solutions Businesses. We are well positioned in size and market breadth to continue to grow our International Healthcare Solutions businesses as we invest to improve our operating and capital efficiencies. The International Healthcare Solutions reportable segment consists of businesses that focus on international pharmaceutical wholesale and related service operations and global commercialization services. The International Healthcare Solutions reportable segment distributes pharmaceuticals, other healthcare products, and related services to healthcare providers, including pharmacies, doctors, health centers and hospitals primarily in Europe. It also is a leading global specialty transportation and logistics provider for the biopharmaceutical industry. The Canada business drives innovative partnerships with manufacturers, providers, and pharmacies to improve product access and efficiency throughout the healthcare supply chain.

•Acquisitions. In order to grow our core strategic offerings and to enter related markets, we have acquired and invested in businesses and will continue to consider additional acquisitions and investments.

In September 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire PharmaLex Holding GmbH (“PharmaLex”), a leading provider of specialized services for the life sciences industry, for €1.28 billion in cash, subject to customary adjustments. PharmaLex's services include regulatory affairs, development consulting and scientific affairs, pharmacovigilance, and quality management and compliance. The acquisition will advance our role as a partner of choice for biopharmaceutical manufacturers by enhancing our global portfolio of solutions to support manufacturer partners across the pharmaceutical development and commercialization journey. PharmaLex will be a component of our International Healthcare Solutions reportable segment. The acquisition is expected to close by March 2023 and is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals. 

•Divestitures. In order to allow us to concentrate on our strategic focus areas, we have divested certain non-core businesses and may, from time to time, consider additional divestitures. 

We completed the sales of non-core subsidiaries in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 and received total proceeds $272.6 million, subject to final working capital adjustments.

3

Table of Contents 

Operations

Operating Structure. We are organized geographically based upon the products and services we provide to our customers. Our operations are comprised of two reportable segments: U.S. Healthcare Solutions and International Healthcare Solutions. U.S. Healthcare Solutions consists of the legacy Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment (excluding Profarma), MWI Animal Health, Xcenda, Lash Group, and ICS 3PL. International Healthcare Solutions consists of Alliance Healthcare, World Courier, Innomar, Profarma, and Profarma Specialty (until it was divested in June 2022). Profarma had previously been included in the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment.

U.S. Healthcare Solutions Segment

The U.S. Healthcare Solutions reportable segment distributes a comprehensive offering of brand-name, specialty brand-name and generic pharmaceuticals, over-the-counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, and related services to a wide variety of healthcare providers, including acute care hospitals and health systems, independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, medical clinics, long-term care and alternate site pharmacies, and other customers. The U.S. Healthcare Solutions reportable segment also provides pharmaceutical distribution (including plasma and other blood products, injectable pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and other specialty pharmaceutical products) and additional services to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease states, especially oncology, and to other healthcare providers, including hospitals and dialysis clinics. Additionally, the U.S. Healthcare Solutions reportable segment provides data analytics, outcomes research, and additional services for biotechnology and pharmaceutical manufacturers. The U.S. Healthcare Solutions reportable segment also provides pharmacy management, staffing and additional consulting services, and supply management software to a variety of retail and institutional healthcare providers. It also provides a full suite of integrated manufacturer services that ranges from clinical trial support to product post-approval and commercialization support. Additionally, it delivers packaging solutions to institutional and retail healthcare providers. Through its animal health business, the U.S. Healthcare Solutions reportable segment sells pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, micro feed ingredients, and various other products to customers in both the companion animal and production animal markets. Our animal health business also offers demand-creating sales force services to manufacturers. 

International Healthcare Solutions

The International Healthcare Solutions reportable segment consists of businesses that focus on international pharmaceutical wholesale and related service operations and global commercialization services. The International Healthcare Solutions reportable segment distributes pharmaceuticals, other healthcare products, and related services to healthcare providers, including pharmacies, doctors, health centers and hospitals primarily in Europe. It also is a leading global specialty transportation and logistics provider for the biopharmaceutical industry. In Canada, the business drives innovative partnerships with manufacturers, providers, and pharmacies to improve product access and efficiency throughout the healthcare supply chain.

Sales and Marketing. The majority of U.S. Healthcare Solutions' sales force is led nationally, with geographic focus and specialized by either healthcare provider type or size. Customer service representatives are centralized in order to respond to customer needs in a timely and effective manner. U.S. Healthcare Solutions also has support professionals focused on its various technologies and service offerings. U.S. Healthcare Solutions' sales teams also serve national account customers through close coordination with local distribution centers and ensure that our customers are receiving service offerings that meet their needs. Our International Healthcare Solutions' businesses each have independent sales forces that specialize in their respective product and service offerings. In addition, we have an enterprise-wide marketing team that coordinates branding and all other marketing activities across the Company.

Customers. We have a diverse customer base that includes institutional and retail healthcare providers as well as pharmaceutical manufacturers. Institutional healthcare providers include acute care hospitals, health systems, mail order pharmacies, long-term care and other alternate care pharmacies, and providers of pharmacy services to such facilities, physicians, and physician group practices. Retail healthcare providers include national and regional retail drugstore chains, independent community pharmacies, pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers, and veterinarians. We are typically the primary source of supply for our healthcare provider customers. Our manufacturer customers include branded, generic, and biotechnology manufacturers of prescription pharmaceuticals, as well as over-the-counter product and health and beauty aid manufacturers. In addition, we offer a broad range of value-added solutions designed to enhance the operating efficiencies and competitive positions of our customers, thereby allowing them to improve the delivery of healthcare to patients and consumers.

Our two largest customers, Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. ("WBA") and Express Scripts, Inc. ("Express Scripts"), accounted for approximately 27% and approximately 13%, respectively, of revenue in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. Our top 10 customers, including governmental agencies and group purchasing organizations ("GPO"), represented 

4

Table of Contents 

approximately 66% of revenue in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. The loss of any major customer or GPO relationship could adversely affect future revenue and results of operations. Additionally, from time to time, significant contracts may be terminated in accordance with their terms or extended, renewed, or replaced prior to their expiration dates. If those contracts are not renewed, or are extended, renewed, or replaced at less favorable terms, they may negatively impact our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows.

Suppliers. We obtain pharmaceutical and other products from manufacturers, none of which accounted for 10% or more of our purchases in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. The loss of a supplier could adversely affect our business if alternate sources of supply are unavailable since we are committed to be the primary source of pharmaceutical products for a majority of our customers. We believe that our relationships with our suppliers are strong. The 10 largest suppliers in fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 accounted for approximately 46% of our purchases.

Information Systems. The U.S. Healthcare Solutions operating segment’s distribution facilities in the United States primarily operate under a single enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system. U.S. Healthcare Solutions’ ERP system provides for, among other things, electronic order entry by customers, invoice preparation and purchasing, and inventory tracking. Our International Healthcare Solutions operating segment operates the majority of its businesses on their own operating systems. We continue to make investments to enhance and upgrade the operating systems utilized by our International Healthcare Solutions operating segments, including, but not limited to, Alliance Healthcare. We also continue to invest in cybersecurity capabilities as a key priority. 

Additionally, we are improving our entity-wide infrastructure environment to drive efficiency, capabilities, and speed to market.

We will continue to invest in advanced information systems and automated warehouse technology. For example, in an effort to comply with future pedigree and other supply chain custody requirements (see Risk Factor - Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel may increase our costs and reduce our profitability), we expect to continue to make significant investments in our secure supply chain information systems.

U.S. Healthcare Solutions has made significant investments in its electronic ordering systems. U.S. Healthcare Solutions’ systems are intended to strengthen customer relationships by helping customers to reduce operating costs, and by providing them a platform for a number of basic and value-added services, including product demand data, inventory replenishment, single-source billing, third-party claims processing, real-time price and incentive updates, and price labels.

U.S. Healthcare Solutions processes a substantial portion of its purchase orders, invoices, and payments electronically, and it continues to make substantial investments to expand its electronic interface with its suppliers. U.S. Healthcare Solutions has warehouse operating systems, which are used to manage the majority of its transactional volume. The warehouse operating systems have improved U.S. Healthcare Solutions’ productivity and operating leverage. 

Competition

We face a highly competitive global environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare services. Our largest competitors are McKesson Corporation ("McKesson"), Cardinal Health, Inc. ("Cardinal"), and UPS Logistics, among others. Our U.S. human health distribution businesses compete with both McKesson and Cardinal, as well as national generic distributors and regional distributors within pharmaceutical distribution. In addition, we compete with manufacturers who sell directly to customers, chain drugstores who manage their own warehousing, specialty distributors, and packaging and healthcare technology companies. Our consulting businesses, World Courier, MWI, and Alliance Healthcare also face competition from a variety of businesses. In all areas, competitive factors include price, product offerings, value-added service programs, service and delivery, credit terms, and customer support.

Intellectual Property

We use a number of trademarks and service marks. All of the principal trademarks and service marks used in the course of our business have been registered in the United States and, in some cases, in foreign jurisdictions, or are the subject of pending applications for registration.

We have developed or acquired various proprietary products, processes, software, and other intellectual property that are used either to facilitate the conduct of our business or that are made available as products or services to customers. We generally seek to protect such intellectual property through a combination of trade secret, patent and copyright laws, and through confidentiality and other contractually imposed protections.

We hold patents and have patent applications pending that relate to certain of our products, particularly our automated pharmacy dispensing equipment, our medication and supply dispensing equipment, certain warehousing equipment, and some 

5

Table of Contents 

of our proprietary packaging solutions. We seek patent protection for our proprietary intellectual property from time to time as appropriate.

Although we believe that our patents or other proprietary products and processes do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of any third parties, third parties may assert infringement claims against us from time to time.

Human Capital Resources

Our ability to succeed in the global marketplace directly depends on attracting and retaining a talented and skilled workforce. We aspire to accelerate business results by fostering a diverse and an inclusive workplace, where all members of our global talent are supported and inspired to perform at their full potential and contribute to our success as their authentic selves.

Workforce

As of September 30, 2022, we had approximately 44,000 employees, of which approximately 39,000 were full-time employees and approximately 39% were U.S.-based employees.

Approximately 28% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, nearly all of whom are employees located outside of the United States.

We encourage and embrace different cultures and backgrounds, as we recognize the value of employing a workforce of unique and varying viewpoints and experiences. Individuals who self-identify as female make up the majority of AmerisourceBergen’s global workforce and Executive Management Committee, at 51% and 57%, respectively. Additionally, 50% of our U.S. workforce are individuals who self-identify as ethnically and/or racially diverse. We currently have two directors who self-identify as ethnically and/or racially diverse, and we currently have three directors who self-identify as female. In addition, the Company announced the election of a new female director, effective January 1, 2023.

Talent Development

We consider employee development to be a strategic priority. We support employee growth and advancement by offering a variety of benefits to eligible full-time employees including, among others:

•Leadership and professional development programs and resources;

•Leadership and executive coaching; 

•Tuition reimbursement;

•Opportunities to volunteer and participate in mentorship and support programs such as our Employee Resource Groups (“ERGs”); 

•Recognition for excellence, such as our annual Pursuit of Purpose awards and True Blue associate recognition program; and 

•Personalized learning and skill-building programs offered through our global learning experience platform.

Importantly, we continue to make meaningful investments in supporting and building our talent and enhancing our culture. In fiscal 2022, we conducted an Employee Experience survey across the Company as a means to gauge employee satisfaction and identify areas in which we can enhance and improve employee experience. This survey also included a Global Inclusion Index that was comprised of questions designed to measure inclusion across the organization. The Employee Experience Survey is the foundation for our new employee listening strategy to ensure employee voices are heard and valued in shaping our Company’s culture.

We introduced our leadership model, which emphasizes people, collaboration, innovation, and purpose, to our team members in fiscal 2021 through a series of experiential learning programs. In fiscal year 2022, we continued to embed the Leadership Competency Model into our enterprise learning programs, talent processes, succession planning and leadership development.  The ultimate goal of our leadership competency model is to help us unlock the full potential of our people and build the new skills and behaviors we need to achieve our enterprise strategy.

Our overarching goal is to provide our team members with clear pathways for career development, access to programs and benefits that allow them to live fuller, healthier lives, and opportunities to participate in their communities in ways that are meaningful to them and inspire and celebrate their individuality. Our talent development programs are designed to help provide a supportive and engaging work environment where team members can excel, while remaining authentic and empowered to share their unique perspectives and experiences.

6

Table of Contents 

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (“DEI”)

At AmerisourceBergen, we are committed to fostering a global workplace that values diversity, equity, and inclusion by creating pathways for every team member to thrive, making a positive impact on our communities, and continuously enhancing our transparency and accountability. 

Our long-term DEI strategy is focused on four critical dimensions—people, culture, progress, and community—and is grounded in deep organizational insights, our people data, and industry research and benchmarks. In pursuit of this strategy, in 2022, we:

•Refreshed the membership and mission of AmerisourceBergen’s DEI Global Council (the “DEI Council”) by expanding the membership of the DEI Council to include the Chair of each ERG and revising the DEI Council’s mission to specifically include identifying and amplifying areas of opportunity to advance our global diversity, equity, and inclusion strategy. 

•Published a dedicated DEI Summary Report on the Company’s website that highlights content from our Environmental, Social and Governance report, as a means to underscore our commitment to DEI, build trust and accountability through enhanced transparency, and monitor progress on our DEI goals. 

•Conducted the first Employee Experience Survey to, among other things, measure inclusion in our global culture. 

•Launched a Global Inclusion campaign, which includes a robust communication plan and action-oriented learning assets to empower our team members and inform inclusive leadership. 

In addition to the foregoing, we offered a number of DEI programs and initiatives in fiscal 2022, including celebrating global inclusion in partnership with our ERGs by holding two global events: International Women’s Day in March and Pride Month in June. 

We are proud that our DEI efforts continue to be recognized. The Human Rights Campaign awarded the Company a perfect score of 100% on its Corporate Equality Index for the fifth consecutive year and also listed us as one of the “Best Places to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality.”

Competitive Compensation and Benefits

We are committed to ensuring equal opportunity and pay equity. We have implemented processes that are designed to drive equitable pay decisions and eliminate unexplained pay inequities. To further support this, AmerisourceBergen has a cross-functional team of leaders from the Global Compensation, Legal, and Human Resource departments that is responsible for researching best practices, reviewing pay practices, working with external resources to analyze current pay equity, and working with senior leaders to implement changes. As a result of these efforts, we have:

•Modified promotional salary increase guidelines to help eliminate pay gaps; 

•Removed questions about pay history in the recruiting and interviewing processes of external candidates; 

•Adopted the practices of administering annual merit increases based on both performance and base pay within the pay range and making promotional salary increases based on market competitiveness and internal equity; and 

•Implemented annual assessments that identify potential pay gaps, with the goal of developing a plan to correct any identified pay gaps that are inexplicable. 

Our comprehensive benefit and compensation package offers the following to all eligible full-time team members: 

•Medical, dental, and vision care, life insurance and other income protection, a retirement plan with Company match, and a discounted employee stock purchase program;

•An employee assistance program with free counseling sessions and unlimited digital mental health support, tuition assistance (including scholarships for dependents), medical coverage for same and opposite gender domestic partners, and holidays and paid time off;

•Infertility coverage and family building counseling services, as well as reimbursement for adoption expenses; 

•Counseling and education guidance benefits to support the needs of team members and dependents with developmental and cognitive challenges; and

7

Table of Contents 

•Effective January 1, 2023, a minimum of twelve weeks of paid parental leave following birth, adoption, or surrogacy for both parents. 

We offer postpartum support and return-to-work assistance, including on-site lactation rooms and flexible work arrangements, such as flex hours. For nursing moms who travel for work, we offer a service to ship breast milk back to their homes. We also offer back-up child and elder care, plus discounts on services, such as childcare, saving for college, and tutoring. Beginning in 2023, we will offer two weeks of paid caregiver leave to care for a family member who has a serious health condition. 

We also believe it is important to invest in the health and wellness of our team members. Our myWellbeing program focuses on the physical, emotional, financial, and social aspects of wellness. Team members can earn points towards a reduction in health insurance premium costs by completing activities, such as monthly challenges, financial training, and getting preventive exams and screenings. We also offer diabetes, weight management, and musculoskeletal programs for team members and their dependents. To help team members navigate the often-confusing healthcare system, we provide a navigation and advocacy service to assist in finding the right care, obtaining a medical second opinion, and understanding confusing medical bills. 

In fiscal 2022, when we initiated our return-to-office protocol, we adopted WorkSmart, a principled work-from-home flexibility program for those team members whose work does not require them to be at one of our physical locations. WorkSmart is based our philosophy and approach to employee satisfaction and provides team members flexibility in how and where work is completed.

Safety and COVID-19

We are committed to the safety and wellbeing of our team members. In addition to utilizing a peer-to-peer safety program, we regularly convene our company leaders to review and evaluate safety data and issue operational excellence scorecards. Distribution center team members receive training on proper safety procedures and incentive opportunities, with safety performance tracked and shared across the organization.

In connection with prioritizing safety, we continue to follow clinical and regulatory guidance as it relates to the COVID-19 pandemic. We continuously monitor guidance on COVID-19 safety and look for ways to enhance our safety protocols.

To further support our team members during the COVID-19 pandemic, we enhanced our benefit offerings (which are discussed above) to provide greater access to mental health telemedicine, additional paid time off for those needing to self-quarantine or care for a family member, and access to mindfulness videos and other wellness resources. Additionally, team members whose household income was impacted, such as by a spouse experiencing job loss, were offered financial support through the AmerisourceBergen Associate Assistance Fund. 

Government Regulation

We are subject to extensive oversight by United States, United Kingdom and European Union governmental entities and we are subject to, and affected by, a variety of laws, regulations, and policies.

The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the U.S. Department of Justice, and various other federal and state authorities regulate the purchase, storage, and/or distribution of pharmaceutical products, including controlled substances. Wholesale distributors of controlled substances must hold valid DEA licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, holding, and distribution of controlled substances. 

We and our customers are subject to fraud and abuse laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute and False Claims Act. The anti-kickback statute prohibits persons from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying any remuneration in order to induce the purchasing, leasing, or ordering, induce a referral to purchase, lease, or order, or arrange for or recommend purchasing, leasing, or ordering items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs. The False Claims Act prohibits knowingly submitting, or causing the submission, of false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government and authorizes treble damages and substantial civil penalties in the case of violations. The fraud and abuse laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to frequent and varied interpretation.

In recent years, some states have passed or proposed laws and regulations that are intended to protect the safety of the pharmaceutical supply channel. These laws and regulations are designed to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, diverted, adulterated, or mislabeled pharmaceuticals into the distribution system. At the federal level, the supply chain security legislation known as the Drug Quality and Security Act (“DQSA”) became law in 2013. Title II of the DQSA, known as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act (“DSCSA”), establishes federal traceability standards requiring drugs to be labeled and tracked at the lot 

8

Table of Contents 

level, preempts state drug pedigree requirements, and requires all supply-chain stakeholders to participate in an electronic, interoperable prescription drug traceability system. The DSCSA also establishes requirements for drug wholesale distributors and third-party logistics providers, including licensing requirements applicable in states that had not previously licensed third-party logistics providers. The FDA, and eventually all comparable state agencies, will promulgate implementing regulations governing wholesale distributor and third-party logistics providers. There can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with DQSA requirements, or with additional related state regulatory and licensing requirements, and any failure to comply may result in suspension or delay of certain operations and additional costs to bring our operations into compliance. These and other requirements will continue to increase the cost of our operations.

The regulation of public and private health insurance and benefit programs can also affect our business, and scrutiny of the healthcare delivery and reimbursement systems in the United States, including those related to the importation and reimportation of certain drugs from foreign markets, can be expected to continue at both the state and federal levels. This process may result in additional legislation and/or regulation governing the production, delivery, or pricing of pharmaceutical products and other healthcare services. In addition, changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant additional compliance costs or the discontinuation of our ability to continue to operate certain of our distribution centers, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Any future reductions in Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement rates could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to purchase drugs from us. We cannot predict what additional initiatives, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us.

We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws, including with respect to the sale, transportation, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, as well as laws relating to safe working conditions and laboratory practices.

The costs, burdens, and/or impacts of complying with federal and state regulations could be significant and the failure to comply with any such legal requirements could have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial condition.

See “Risk Factors” for a discussion of additional legal and regulatory developments, as well as enforcement actions or other litigation that may arise out of our failure to adequately comply with applicable laws and regulations that may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Health Information and Privacy Practices

The Health Information Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) and its implementing regulations set forth privacy and security standards designed to protect the privacy of and provide for the security of protected health information, as defined under the HIPAA regulations. Some of our businesses collect, maintain, and/or access protected health information and are subject to the HIPAA regulations. Our operations, depending on their location, may also be subject to state or foreign regulations affecting personal data protection and the manner in which information services or products are provided. Significant criminal and civil penalties may be imposed for violation of HIPAA standards and other such laws. We have a HIPAA compliance program to facilitate our ongoing efforts to comply with the HIPAA regulations.

The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH Act”) strengthened federal privacy and security provisions governing protected health information. Among other things, the HITECH Act expanded certain aspects of the HIPAA privacy and security rules, imposed new notification requirements related to health data security breaches, broadened the rights of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) to enforce HIPAA, and directed HHS to publish more specific security standards. In January 2013, the Office for Civil Rights of HHS published the HIPAA omnibus final rule (“HIPAA Final Rule”), which amended certain aspects of the HIPAA privacy, security, and enforcement rules pursuant to the HITECH Act, extending certain HIPAA obligations to business associates and their subcontractors. Certain components of our business act as “business associates” within the meaning of HIPAA and are subject to these additional obligations under the HIPAA Final Rule.

Some of our businesses collect, maintain, and/or access other personal information (including sensitive personal information) that is subject to federal and state laws protecting such information, in addition to the requirements of HIPAA, the HITECH Act, and the implementing regulations. Personal information is also highly regulated in many other countries in which we operate and many of these laws place restrictions on the transfer of personal information to other jurisdictions. As such regulations continue to evolve, we must comply with applicable privacy and security requirements of these countries, including but not limited to those in the European Union and the United Kingdom. Most notably certain aspects of our business are subject to the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) which became effective on May 25, 2018, the UK GDPR and the UK Data Protection Act of 2018, the California Consumer Protection Act (“CCPA”), which became effective on January 1, 2020, and Brazil’s General Data Protection Law (Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados Pessoais) – Law No. 13,709/208 (“LGPD”) which became effective in August 2020. On November 3, 2020, the California Privacy Rights Act of 

9

Table of Contents 

2020 (“CPRA”), which amends the CCPA and adds new privacy protections that will become effective on January 1, 2023, was enacted through a ballot initiative. Similarly, Virginia (the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act, effective on January 1, 2023), Colorado (the Colorado Privacy Act, effective on July 1, 2023), Connecticut (the Connecticut Data Privacy Act, effective on July 1, 2023), and Utah (the Utah Consumer Privacy Act, effective December 31, 2023) have also enacted similarly situated data protection laws. Other states and countries continue to enact similar legislation. We have implemented a privacy and information security compliance program to facilitate our ongoing efforts to comply with the applicable privacy laws and regulations. There can be no assurances that compliance with these requirements will not impose new costs on our business.

Available Information

For more information about us, visit our website at www.amerisourcebergen.com. The contents of the website are not part of this Form 10-K. Our electronic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including all Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K, and any amendments to these reports) are available free of charge through our website at investor.amerisourcebergen.com immediately after we electronically file with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission and may also be viewed using their website at www.sec.gov.

10

Table of Contents 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS