Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices which could impact our results of operations and financial condition.

Foreign Currency Exposures

We have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. As a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. We actively manage material currency exposures that are associated with purchases and sales and other assets and liabilities at the legal entity level; however, we do not hedge currency translation risk. We attempt to hedge exposures that cannot be naturally offset to an insignificant amount with foreign currency derivatives. Derivative instruments utilized in our hedging activities are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. To minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments.

We evaluate our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on our foreign currency derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. The sensitivity analysis is a measurement of the potential loss in fair value based on a percentage change in exchange rates. Based on the firmly committed currency derivative instruments in place at December 31, 2021, a hypothetical change in fair value of those derivative instruments assuming a 10% adverse change in exchange rates would result in an additional unrealized loss of approximately $9.4 million. This amount, when realized, would be partially offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying transactions.

Commodity Price Exposures

We are exposed to volatility in the prices of commodities used in some of our products and we use fixed price contracts to manage this exposure. We do not have committed commodity derivative instruments in place at December 31, 2021.

Interest Rate Exposure

Outstanding borrowings under our 2021 Credit Facilities accrue interest at our option of (i) a BSBY rate plus the applicable margin or (ii) a base rate plus the applicable margin. The applicable margin ranges from 0.875% to 1.375% depending on our credit ratings. At December 31, 2021, the outstanding borrowings of $250.0 million under the 2021 Term Facility accrue interest at BSBY plus a margin of 1.125%. We are also exposed to the risk of rising interest rates to the extent that we fund our operations with short-term or variable-rate borrowings, as we currently have unused availability of $491.3 million under our 2021 Revolving Facility as of December 31, 2021. If our BSBY or other applicable base rates of our 2021 Credit Facilities increase in the future, our Interest expense could increase.

45
Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA