Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Our earnings, cash flows, and financial position are exposed to market risks arising from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. It is our policy to minimize our cash flow exposure to adverse changes in currency exchange rates and to manage the financial risks inherent in funding with debt capital.

We address these financial exposures through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We have established counterparty credit guidelines and generally enter into transactions with financial institutions of investment grade or better, thereby minimizing the risk of credit loss. All instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. For details on the types and use of these derivative instruments and related major accounting policies, refer to Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Major Accounting Policies, and Note 12, Financial Instruments, to the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, we mitigate adverse energy price impacts through our cost pass-through contracts with customers and price increases.

Our derivative and other financial instruments consist of long-term debt, including the current portion and amounts owed to related parties; interest rate swaps; cross currency interest rate swaps; and foreign exchange-forward contracts. The net market value of these financial instruments combined is referred to below as the "net financial instrument position" and is disclosed in Note 13, Fair Value Measurements, to the consolidated financial statements. Our net financial instrument position decreased from a liability of $7,850.3 at 30 September 2021 to a liability of $6,898.6 at 30 September 2022. The decrease was primarily due to the effect of higher interest rates on the fair value of U.S. Dollar- and Euro-denominated fixed-rate debt and the effect of a stronger U.S Dollar on foreign currency-denominated debt. 

51
The analysis below presents the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices. Market values are the present values of projected future cash flows based on the market rates and prices chosen. The market values for interest rate risk and foreign currency risk are calculated by us using a third-party software model that utilizes standard pricing models to determine the present value of the instruments based on market conditions as of the valuation date, such as interest rates, spot and forward exchange rates, and implied volatility.

Interest Rate Risk

Our debt portfolio as of 30 September 2022, including the effect of currency and interest rate swap agreements, was composed of 79% fixed-rate debt and 21% variable-rate debt. Our debt portfolio as of 30 September 2021, including the effect of currency and interest rate swap agreements, was composed of 89% fixed-rate debt and 11% variable-rate debt. The increase in variable-rate debt is primarily the result of a $600 million increase in the outstanding notional of fixed-to-variable interest rate swaps. 

The sensitivity analysis related to the interest rate risk on the fixed portion of our debt portfolio assumes an instantaneous 100 bp parallel move in interest rates from the level at 30 September 2022, with all other variables held constant. A 100 bp increase in market interest rates would result in a decrease of $364 and $587 in the net liability position of financial instruments at 30 September 2022 and 2021, respectively. A 100 bp decrease in market interest rates would result in an increase of $425 and $692 in the net liability position of financial instruments at 30 September 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, including the interest rate swap agreements, a 100 bp increase in interest rates would result in an additional $16 and $8 of interest incurred per year at 30 September 2022 and 2021, respectively. A 100 bp decline in interest rates would lower interest incurred by $16 and $8 per year at 30 September 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

The sensitivity analysis related to foreign currency exchange rates assumes an instantaneous 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates from their levels at 30 September 2022 and 2021, with all other variables held constant. A 10% strengthening or weakening of the functional currency of an entity versus all other currencies would result in a decrease or increase, respectively, of $165 and $343 in the net liability position of financial instruments at 30 September 2022 and 2021, respectively. The lower decrease or increase from a 10% strengthening or weakening, respectively, was primarily due to the origination of project cost hedges that generate losses and increase the net liability position when the functional currency strengthens or generate gains and decrease the net liability position when the functional currency weakens.

The primary currency pairs for which we have exchange rate exposure are the Euro and U.S. Dollar and Chinese Renminbi and U.S. Dollar. Foreign currency debt, cross currency interest rate swaps, and foreign exchange-forward contracts are used in countries where we do business, thereby reducing our net asset exposure. Foreign exchange-forward contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps are also used to hedge our firm and highly anticipated foreign currency cash flows. Thus, there is either an asset or liability or cash flow exposure related to all of the financial instruments in the above sensitivity analysis for which the impact of a movement in exchange rates would be in the opposite direction and materially equal to the impact on the instruments in the analysis.

The majority of our sales are denominated in foreign currencies as they are derived outside the United States. Therefore, financial results will be affected by changes in foreign currency rates. The Chinese Renminbi and the Euro represent the largest exposures in terms of our foreign earnings. We estimate that a 10% reduction in either the Chinese Renminbi or the Euro versus the U.S. Dollar would lower our annual operating income by approximately $45 and $25, respectively.

52
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data