PART I

Item 1. Business.

General

Becton, Dickinson and Company (also referred to herein as "BD") was incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in November 1906, as successor to a New York business started in 1897. BD’s executive offices are located at 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880, and its telephone number is (201) 847-6800. All references in this Form 10-K to "BD", "the Company", "we", "our" or "us" refer to Becton, Dickinson and Company and its domestic and foreign subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated by the context. 

BD is a global medical technology company engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of medical supplies, devices, laboratory equipment and diagnostic products used by healthcare institutions, physicians, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. We provide customer solutions that are focused on improving medication management and patient safety; supporting infection prevention practices; equipping surgical and interventional procedures; improving drug delivery; aiding anesthesiology care; enhancing the diagnosis of infectious diseases and cancers; and advancing cellular research and applications.

Business Segments

BD’s operations consist of three worldwide business segments: BD Medical, BD Life Sciences and BD Interventional. Information with respect to BD’s business segments is included in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and is incorporated herein by reference.

BD Medical

BD Medical produces a broad array of medical technologies and devices that are used to help improve healthcare delivery in a wide range of settings. The primary customers served by BD Medical are hospitals and clinics; physicians’ office practices; consumers and retail pharmacies; governmental and nonprofit public health agencies; pharmaceutical companies; and healthcare workers. BD Medical consists of the following organizational units:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1
BD Life Sciences

BD Life Sciences provides products for the safe collection and transport of diagnostics specimens, and instruments and reagent systems to detect a broad range of infectious diseases, healthcare-associated infections and cancers. In addition, BD Life Sciences produces research and clinical tools that facilitate the study of cells, and the components of cells, to gain a better understanding of normal and disease processes. That information is used to aid the discovery and development of new drugs and vaccines, and to improve the diagnosis and management of diseases. The primary customers served by BD Life Sciences are hospitals, laboratories and clinics; blood banks; healthcare workers; public health agencies; physicians’ office practices; retail pharmacies; academic and government institutions; and pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. With the emergency use authorization approval of the At Home COVID-19 test, BD Life Sciences also serves patients directly. BD Life Sciences consists of the following organizational units:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

BD Interventional

BD Interventional provides vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialty products that are intended, with the exception of the V. Mueller™ surgical and laparoscopic instrumentation products, to be used once and then discarded or are either temporarily or permanently implanted. The primary customers served by BD Interventional are hospitals, individual healthcare professionals, extended care facilities, alternate site facilities, and patients via our Homecare business. BD Interventional consists of the following organizational units:

2
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Acquisition

On July 18, 2022, BD completed the acquisition of Parata Systems (“Parata”), an innovative provider of pharmacy automation solutions, for total cash consideration of $1.548 billion. Since the acquisition date, financial results for Parata's product offerings are being reported within results for the Medical segment’s Medication Management Solutions unit. Additional information regarding this acquisition is contained in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Spin-Off of Diabetes Care

On April 1, 2022, BD completed the separation and distribution of Embecta Corp. (“Embecta”), formerly BD's Diabetes Care business, into a separate, publicly-traded company. The historical results of the Diabetes Care business (previously included in BD’s Medical segment), as well as interest expense related to indebtedness incurred by Embecta prior to the spin-off date, have been reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements for all periods prior to the spin-off date of April 1, 2022. Additional disclosures regarding our spin-off of the Diabetes Care business are provided in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is incorporated herein by reference.

International Operations

BD’s products are manufactured and sold worldwide. For reporting purposes, we organize our operations outside the United States as follows: EMEA (which includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa); Greater Asia (which includes countries in Greater China, Japan, South Asia, Southeast Asia, Korea, and Australia and New Zealand); Latin America (which includes Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean and South America); and Canada. BD has manufacturing operations outside the United States in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Canada, China, Dominican Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, and the United Kingdom. Geographic information with respect to BD’s operations is included under the heading “Geographic Information” in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Foreign economic conditions and exchange rate fluctuations have caused the profitability related to foreign revenues to fluctuate more than the profitability related to domestic revenues. BD believes its activities in some countries outside the United States involve greater risk than its domestic business due to the factors cited herein, as well as the economic environment, local commercial and economic policies and political uncertainties. See further discussion of these risks in Item 1A. Risk Factors.

3
Distribution

BD’s products are marketed and distributed in the United States and internationally through independent distribution channels, as well as directly to hospitals and other healthcare related institutions by BD and independent sales representatives. BD uses acute care, non-acute care, laboratory and drug wholesaler distributors to broadly support our overall disposable product demand from our end user customers in the United States, while our capital equipment is mostly sold direct to our end user customers. In international markets, products are distributed either directly or through distributors, with the practice varying by country. Order backlog is not usually material to BD’s business inasmuch as orders for BD products generally are received and filled on a current basis. BD’s worldwide sales are not generally seasonal, with the exception of certain medical devices in the Medication Delivery Solutions business unit, and flu diagnostic products in the Integrated Diagnostic Systems business unit, both of which relate to seasonal diseases such as influenza. In order to service its customers, optimize logistics, lower facilities costs and reduce finished goods inventory levels, BD operates consolidated distribution facilities globally. 

Raw Materials and Components

BD purchases many different types of raw materials and components, including plastics, glass, metals, textiles, paper products, agricultural products, electronic and mechanical sub-assemblies and various biological, chemical and petrochemical products. BD seeks to ensure continuity of supply by securing multiple options for sourcing. However, there are situations where raw materials and components are only available from one supplier, which are referred to as sole sourced. The use of sole sourced materials and components may be due to sourcing of proprietary and/or patented technology and processes that are intended to provide a unique market differentiation to our product. In other cases, while a raw material or component can be sourced from multiple manufacturers, only one supplier is qualified due to quality assurance, cost or other considerations. In order to provide alternate sources, BD must complete a rigorous qualification process, which most often includes completion of regulatory registration and approval. If clinical trials are not required, this qualification process can take 3-18 months depending on the criticality of the change. When clinical trials are required, this process may lengthen the qualification phase from one to three years. BD continuously assesses its sole sourced raw materials and components, and maintains business continuity plans with its suppliers. BD’s continuity plans may include securing secondary supply with alternate suppliers, qualification of alternate manufacturing facilities, maintaining contingency stock, internal development of supply and establishment of technology escrow accounts. While BD works closely with its suppliers, no assurance can be given that these efforts will be successful, and there may be events that cause supply interruption, reduction or termination that adversely impacts BD’s ability to manufacture and sell certain products. See further discussion of the risks related to the supply chain and raw materials in Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Research and Development

BD conducts its research and development (“R&D”) activities at its operating units and across global enterprise centers of excellence located in the United States, India, China, Singapore, and Ireland. The majority of BD’s R&D activities are conducted in North America. Outside North America, BD has a significant R&D presence in Greater Asia and Europe. BD also collaborates with certain universities, medical centers and other entities on R&D programs and retains individual consultants and partners to support its efforts in specialized fields. 

Intellectual Property and Licenses

BD owns significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries. BD is also licensed under domestic and foreign patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks owned by others. In the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to BD’s business. BD believes, however, that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material in relation to BD’s business as a whole, or to any business segment.

4
Competition

BD operates in the increasingly complex and challenging medical technology marketplace. Technological advances and scientific discoveries have accelerated the pace of change in medical technology, the regulatory environment of medical products is becoming more complex and vigorous, and economic conditions have resulted in a challenging market. Companies of varying sizes compete in the global medical technology field. Some are more specialized than BD with respect to particular markets, and some have greater financial resources than BD. New companies have entered the field, particularly in the areas of molecular diagnostics, non-traditional point of care and at-home testing, safety-engineered devices and in the life sciences, and established companies have diversified their business activities into the medical technology area. Other firms engaged in the distribution of medical technology products have become manufacturers of medical devices and instruments as well. Acquisitions and collaborations by and among companies seeking a competitive advantage also affect the competitive environment. In addition, the entry into the market of low-cost manufacturers has created increased pricing pressures. BD competes in this evolving marketplace on the basis of many factors, including price, quality, innovation, service, reputation, distribution and promotion. The impact of these factors on BD’s competitive position varies among BD’s various product offerings. In order to remain competitive in the industries in which it operates, BD continues to make investments in R&D, quality management, quality improvement, product innovation, manufacturing and supply chain investments to boost supply reliability and productivity improvement in support of its core strategies. See further discussion of the risks relating to competition in the medical technology industry in Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Third-Party Reimbursement

Reimbursement is an important strategic consideration in the development and marketing of medical technology. Obtaining coverage, coding and payment is critical to the commercial success of a new product or procedure. Difficulty in achieving market access can lead to slow adoption in the marketplace and inadequate payment levels that can continue for months or even years.

A majority of BD’s customers rely on third-party payers, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures, products and services they provide. Vertical integration has created a very concentrated market among commercial third-party payers in the U.S. Global payers are increasingly focused on strategies to control spending on healthcare and reward improvements in quality and patient outcomes.

BD is actively engaged in identifying and communicating value propositions of its products for payer, provider, and patient stakeholders, and it employs various efforts and resources to attempt to positively impact coverage, coding and payment pathways. However, BD has no direct control over payer decision-making with respect to coverage and payment levels for BD products. The manner and level of reimbursement in any given case may depend on the site of care, the procedure(s) performed, the final patient diagnosis, the device(s) and/or drug(s) utilized, the available budget, or a combination of these factors, and coverage and payment levels are determined at each payer’s discretion. As BD’s product offerings are diverse across a variety of healthcare settings, they are affected to varying degrees by the many payment pathways that impact the decisions of healthcare providers regarding which medical products they purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for those products. Therefore, changes in reimbursement levels or methods may either positively or negatively impact sales of BD products in any given country for any given product. 

As government programs expand healthcare coverage for their citizens, they have at the same time sought to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures, products or services. In addition, most payers are seeking price predictability in order to mitigate future exposure to manufacturer price increases. This is coupled with an increase in high deductible private insurance plans, which transfer more pricing exposure and burden directly to the patient.

 Many payers both in the U.S. and globally have developed specific payment and delivery mechanisms to support these cost control efforts and to focus on paying for value. These mechanisms include payment reductions, pay for performance measures, quality-based performance payments, restrictive coverage policies, bidding and tender mechanics, studies to compare the effectiveness of therapies and use of technology 

5
assessments. These changes, whether the result of legislation, new strategic alliances or market consolidations, have created an increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective and quality-driven healthcare. 

For example, as a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”), the U.S. has implemented value-based payment methodologies and has created alternative payment models such as bundled payments to continue to drive improved value. We see other governments around the world considering similar bundling reform measures, with the utilization of the Diagnosis Related Group (“DRG”) as a payment mechanism to drive toward quality and resource-based reimbursement becoming more common in regions outside the U.S.

Regulation

General

BD's operations are global and are affected by complex state, federal and international laws relating to healthcare, environmental protection, occupational health and safety, antitrust, anti-corruption, marketing, fraud and abuse (including anti-kickback and false claims laws), export control, product safety and efficacy, employment, privacy and other areas. 

BD’s medical technology products and operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and various other federal and state agencies, as well as by foreign governmental agencies. These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing and distribution, and market surveillance of BD’s medical products. The scope of the activities of these agencies, particularly in the Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific regions in which BD operates, has been increasing.

BD actively maintains Quality Systems that establish standards for its product design, manufacturing, and distribution processes, in accordance with ISO standards and FDA regulation. Prior to marketing or selling most of its products, BD must secure authorization from the FDA and counterpart foreign regulatory agencies. Following the introduction of a product, these agencies engage in periodic reviews and inspections of BD’s quality systems, as well as product performance and advertising and promotional materials. These regulatory controls, as well as any changes in agency policies, can affect the time and cost associated with the development, introduction and continued availability of new and existing products. Where possible, BD anticipates these factors in its product development and planning processes. These agencies have the authority to take various administrative and legal actions against BD, such as product recalls, product seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions, for violations of applicable requirements. BD also undertakes voluntary compliance actions, such as voluntary recalls.

BD also is subject to various federal and state laws, and laws outside the United States, concerning healthcare fraud and abuse (including false claims laws and anti-kickback laws), global anti-corruption, transportation, safety and health, and customs and exports. Many of the agencies enforcing these laws have increased their enforcement activities with respect to medical device manufacturers in recent years. This is part of a general trend toward increased regulation and enforcement activity within and outside the United States.

In addition, the federal government has enacted the Sunshine Act provisions requiring BD to publicly report gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals. Countries outside the United States have enacted similar local laws requiring medical device companies to report transfers of value to healthcare providers licensed in those countries. Failure to comply with these laws could result in a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions.

Consent Decree with FDA

Our infusion pump organizational unit is operating under an amended consent decree entered into by CareFusion with the FDA in 2007. CareFusion’s consent decree with the FDA is related to its Alaris™ SE infusion pumps. In February 2009, CareFusion and the FDA amended the consent decree (the “Consent Decree”) to include all infusion pumps manufactured by or for CareFusion 303, Inc., the organizational unit that manufactures and sells BD Alaris™ infusion pumps in the United States. The Consent Decree does not apply to intravenous administration sets and accessories.

6
Following an inspection that began in March 2020 of our Medication Management Systems facility (CareFusion 303, Inc.) in San Diego, California, the FDA issued to BD a Form 483 Notice (the “Form 483 Notice”) that contains a number of observations of non-conformance with the FDA’s quality system regulations. In December 2021, the FDA issued to CareFusion 303, Inc. a letter of non-compliance with respect to the Consent Decree (the “Non-Compliance Letter”) stating that, among other things, it had determined that certain of BD’s corrective actions with respect to the Form 483 Notice appeared to be adequate, some were still in progress such that adequacy could not be determined yet, and certain others were not adequate (e.g., complaint handling and corrective and preventive actions (“CAPA”), design verification and medical device reporting). Per the terms of the Non-Compliance Letter, CareFusion 303, Inc. provided the FDA with a proposed comprehensive corrective action plan and has retained an independent expert to conduct periodic audits of the CareFusion 303, Inc. infusion pump facilities over the next four years. CareFusion 303, Inc. will update its corrective action plan to address any observations that may arise during the course of these audits. The FDA’s review of the items raised in the Form 483 Notice and Non-Compliance Letter remains ongoing, and no assurances can be given regarding further action by the FDA as a result of the observations, including but not limited to action pursuant to the Consent Decree, or that corrective actions proposed by CareFusion 303, Inc. will be adequate to address these observations. Additionally, we cannot currently predict the amount of additional monetary investment that will be incurred to resolve this matter or the matter’s ultimate impact on our business.

The Consent Decree authorizes the FDA, in the event of any violations in the future, to order us to cease manufacturing and distributing infusion pumps, recall products and take other actions. We may be required to pay damages of $15,000 per day per violation if we fail to comply with any provision of the Consent Decree, up to $15 million per year. 

We may be obligated to pay more costs in the future because, among other things, the FDA may determine that we are not fully compliant with the Consent Decree and Non-Compliance Letter and therefore impose penalties under the Consent Decree, and/or we may also be subject to future proceedings and litigation relating to the matters addressed in the Consent Decree, including, but not limited to, additional fines, penalties, other monetary remedies, and expansion of the terms of the Consent Decree. As of September 30, 2022, we do not believe that a loss is probable in connection with the Consent Decree, and accordingly, we have no accruals associated with compliance with the Consent Decree. 

We are undertaking certain remediation of our BD Alaris™ System, and are currently shipping the product in the U.S. only in cases of medical necessity and to remediate recalled software versions. As previously disclosed, we submitted our 510(k) premarket notification to the FDA for the BD Alaris™ System in April 2021. The 510(k) submission is intended to bring the regulatory clearance for the BD Alaris™ System up-to-date, address open recall issues, and provide other updates and features, including a new version of BD Alaris™ System software that will provide clinical, operational and cybersecurity updates. We will not be able to fully resume commercial operations for the BD Alaris™ System in the U.S. until BD’s 510(k) submission relating to the product has been cleared by the FDA. No assurances can be given as to when or if clearance will be obtained from the FDA.

FDA Warning Letter

On January 11, 2018, BD received a Warning Letter from the FDA with respect to our former BD Preanalytical Systems ("PAS") unit, citing certain alleged violations of quality system regulations and of law. The Warning Letter states that, until BD resolves the outstanding issues covered by the Warning Letter, the FDA will not clear or approve any premarket submissions for Class III devices to which the non-conformances are reasonably related or grant requests for certificates to foreign governments. BD has worked closely with the FDA and implemented corrective actions to address the quality management system concerns identified in the warning letter.  In March 2020, the FDA conducted a subsequent inspection of PAS, which it classified as Voluntary Action Indicated, which means the FDA will not take or recommend any administrative or regulatory action as a result of the unit’s response to the observations associated with the quality management concerns in the inspection. BD continues to work with the FDA to generate additional clinical evidence and file 510(k)s as remaining commitments associated with the Warning Letter. In January 2022, BD received FDA clearance for 

7
its BD Vacutainer® ACD Blood Collection Tubes used in immunohematology. The FDA review of these remaining commitments is ongoing, and no assurances can be given regarding further action by the FDA as a result of these commitments, including but not limited to action pursuant to the Warning Letter.

Ethylene Oxide/Consent Order - Covington, Georgia, USA

On October 28, 2019, BD entered into a consent order with the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (the “EPD”), following the filing of a complaint and motion for temporary restraining order by the EPD seeking to enjoin BD from continuing sterilization operations at its Covington, Georgia facility. Under the terms of the consent order, which has been amended two times upon mutual agreement of BD and EPD, BD voluntarily agreed to a number of operational changes at its Covington and Madison, Georgia facilities, as well as at its distribution center in Covington, designed to further reduce ethylene oxide emissions, including but not limited to operating at a reduced capacity until successful implementation of fugitive emission control technology, ongoing ambient air monitoring and operational controls at such facilities. Following submission of data relating to the implementation of these operational changes, BD was permitted to return to normal operations in December 2021 at its facilities in Georgia in accordance with the operating conditions set forth in its permit applications, including a condition to continue ambient air monitoring. However, BD’s sterilization operations in Georgia remain subject to the EPD’s final approval of BD’s air permit applications and could be subject to additional restrictions. BD has business continuity plans in place to mitigate the impact of any additional restrictions on our operations at these facilities, although it is possible that these plans will not be able to fully offset such impact, especially considering the reduced capacity of third-party sterilization service providers and the regulatory timelines associated with transferring sterilization operations for regulated products.

At a broader level, there is increased focus on the use and emission of ethylene oxide by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and state environmental regulatory agencies. Additional regulatory requirements associated with the use and emission of ethylene oxide may be imposed in the future, either domestically or outside the U.S. Ethylene oxide is the most frequently used sterilant for medical devices and healthcare products in the U.S., and in certain cases is the only option to sterilize critical medical device products for the safe administration to patients. This increased regulation could require BD or sterilization service providers, including providers used by BD, to temporarily suspend operations to install additional fugitive emissions control technology, limit the use of ethylene oxide or take other actions, which would impact BD’s operations and further reduce the available capacity to sterilize medical devices and healthcare products, and could also result in additional costs. A few states have filed lawsuits to require additional air quality controls and expand limitations on the use of ethylene oxide at sterilization facilities. For example, in December 2020, the State of New Mexico filed a lawsuit seeking a temporary restraining order and a preliminary and permanent injunction against a major medical device sterilizer, which sterilizes certain of our surgery products, to reduce ethylene oxide emissions associated with their sterilization process. On the federal level, in late 2019, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency provided notice that it would be conducting rulemaking to reconsider federal regulations applicable to the use and emission of ethylene oxide, and there continues to be increased focus on the use and emission of ethylene oxide on the federal level. In anticipation of these proposed revisions to federal air regulations for commercial sterilizers in the U.S., BD is installing fugitive emissions controls at our facilities in East Columbus, NE and Sandy, UT. It is possible that there may also be increased regulation outside the U.S. If any existing regulatory requirements or any such proceedings or rulemaking result in the suspension or interruption of sterilization operations at BD or at medical device sterilizers used by BD, or otherwise limit the availability of third-party sterilization capacity, this could interrupt or otherwise adversely impact production of certain of our products or lead to civil litigation or other claims against BD. BD has business continuity plans in place to mitigate the impact of any such disruptions, although these plans may not be able to fully offset such impact, for the reasons noted above.

For further discussion of risks relating to the regulations to which we are subject, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.

8
Human Capital Management

At BD, our associates are guided by our Purpose of advancing the world of healthTM and The BD WAY, our cultural foundation that encompasses our core values, leadership commitments and the mindset we bring to our work. Our associates are empowered to contribute their unique ideas and experiences to fuel innovation and improve patient outcomes. As of September 30, 2022, BD is comprised of approximately 77,000 associates located in over 62 countries. Attracting, developing and retaining talented people in technical, marketing, sales, research and other positions is crucial to executing our strategy and our ability to compete effectively in a highly competitive medical technology industry. Our ability to recruit and retain such talent depends on several factors, including compensation and benefits, talent development and career opportunities, and our unique culture. To that end, we continually invest in our associates in order to be an employer of choice.

Inclusion, Diversity & Equity

We strive to have our workforce reflect the communities we live and work in and the customers and patients we serve. Our associates possess a broad range of thoughts and experiences which have helped BD achieve our leadership position in the medical technology industry and the global marketplace. A key component of our journey to continually build a better BD is our commitment to global inclusion, diversity and equity (“ID&E”). We believe this commitment, coupled with our purpose and culture, allows us to better understand patient and customer needs and develop innovative technologies to meet those needs. 

While we continue to demonstrate progress in expanding the diverse representation of our workforce, we seek to continuously improve. Each year, we establish annual corporate ID&E goals to improve hiring, development, advancement, and retention of diverse talent at every level of the organization to further our culture of inclusion. In addition, our executive leaders serve as sponsors to our eight global Associate Resource Groups (“ARGs”). Our ARGs are empowered to set strategic goals aligned with their mission and centered around efforts to advance our company, our local communities and each BD associates’ career, while driving acceptance, allyship and professional development opportunities.

Externally, we are building on our existing momentum and remain involved in industry ID&E efforts with the Advanced Medical Technology Association (“AdvaMed”) to improve diversity in the medical technology industry. We remain committed to sustaining meaningful, long-term strategic partnerships and programs to help ensure that we are advancing the health of our people and patient communities. Through the BD Helping Build Healthy Communities™ initiative, which is funded by BD and the BD Foundation, and implemented jointly by Direct Relief and the National Association of Community Health Centers, we have provided 52 awards to community health centers in 20 states since 2013, with a total commitment of $22.6 million in cash and product donations to advance health equity in the U.S. 

These collective efforts have garnered recognition from respected organizations across the country, including Best Places to Work for Disability and LGBTQ Inclusion, Bloomberg’s Gender Equality Index, Diversity Inc.’s Noteworthy Companies and from Forbes - Best Employers for Diversity, Best Large Employers and World’s Best Employer awards. While we celebrate the recognition we have received, we remain committed and accountable to the work required within our company and beyond our corporate walls to build belonging, acceptance and equity for all.

9
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the above table, we define “executives” as associates in positions of vice president and above. “Management” positions are defined as those in manager, director or equivalent roles. Information regarding race and gender is based on information provided by associates.

Associate Growth and Development

At BD we hold ourselves and each other accountable for learning and growing every day, which underscores our growth mindset culture. Our commitment to continuous improvement helps us become the best version of ourselves and we invest significant resources to develop talent with the right capabilities to deliver the growth and innovation needed to support our strategy and customers. Our enhanced Strategic Organizational Planning process is focused on building the organizational capabilities required in the years to come, and we offer associates and managers a number of tools to help in their personal and professional development, including career development plans, mentoring programs and in-house learning opportunities, including BD University, our in-house continuing education program that follows a "leaders-as-teachers" approach. Our deeply-rooted practice of investing in our next generation of leaders offers associates a number of leadership development programs, including programs dedicated to specific areas, such as finance and technology. We offer a suite of programs to help our more than 8,000 People Managers to become even more efficient as managers, and we are beginning to roll-out programs focused on building servant leaders who create work environments that facilitate growth and success. We have also applied our growth mindset philosophy to our performance management approach with an increased focus on continuous learning and development. 

Associate Engagement

As we strive to be an employer of choice, we believe it is critical that our associates are informed, engaged and have the opportunity to provide feedback. We communicate frequently and transparently with our associates through a variety of communication methods, including video and written communications, town hall meetings, associate surveys and our company intranet, and acknowledge individual contributions to BD through a number of rewards and recognition award programs. Feedback from associates indicates that these engagement efforts keep associates informed about our strategy, culture and purpose and motivated to do their best work. 

In addition to helping associates stay engaged, we also work to foster and reinforce an inclusive culture where diverse perspectives are valued. This year, our ARGs continued to host company-wide dialogues and panel sessions to advance our business and cultural priorities and engage associates on timely topics on racial injustice, career progression, critical race theory, LGBTQIA+ education and equity, eliminating bias, healthcare inequity and access, and mental/emotional well-being during turbulent times. We continue to engage in discussions as a company on intersectionality, inclusion and belonging. 

We seek ongoing feedback to better understand what we are doing well and how we can improve the associate experience. In addition to encouraging a speak-up culture between associates, their managers, and cross-functional teams, we conduct employee engagement surveys to provide all associates with an opportunity to share their perspective and we take appropriate action in response.

We also have a long-standing history of associate volunteerism that we believe has had an impact on local and global communities. Through our public-private partnerships and collaborations with non-government organizations, we sponsor volunteer trips and other meaningful volunteer opportunities to help communities around the world and increase health equity and access for all people. On a local front, associates are 

10
encouraged and empowered to serve organizations and causes that are important to them. This includes a matching gift program, paid time off to volunteer, and an award program to give grants to non-profit organizations in honor of associates who engage in exceptional volunteer efforts.

Compensation, Benefits and Well-being

Our total rewards program is designed to attract and retain top talent and to incentivize performance aligned with our business strategy and values. We offer a comprehensive total rewards program aimed at promoting overall well-being in support of the varying health, home-life and financial needs of our diverse and global associates. Through our integrated global approach to well-being, we provide support, education, and resources to empower associates across all geographies to prioritize their well-being and build resilience in the physical, emotional, financial, and social areas of life. To enable associates to take action in support of their overall well-being, our total rewards packages (which vary by location) include market-competitive pay, broad-based stock grants and bonuses, healthcare benefits, pension and retirement savings plans, paid time off and family leave, flexible work schedules, on-site health and fitness centers, free physicals and flu vaccinations, well-being education and resources, Employee Assistance Programs and other mental health support and resources. Each year we review and implement program enhancements and investments to ensure our benefits are inclusive and representative of the needs of BD associates and their families. Additionally, over the last several years in the U.S., we have increased efforts to mitigate the impact of rising healthcare costs and to offer more affordable benefit options, with a specific focus on affordability for BD associates earning $50,000 per year or less. 

BD is also committed to compensating all associates fairly and equitably for their contributions to company performance. Aligned with our priority focus on pay equity, we regularly conduct comprehensive audits, internal and external analyses, salary benchmarking and bias assessments to identify and remedy unexplained disparities. For fiscal year 2021, we conducted a global pay equity assessment for associates in 57 countries, representing approximately 70% of BD’s global salaried associate population and found that our female associates in 2021 earned an average of 99 cents for every $1 earned by male associates in the U.S., and 98 cents globally. We consider these results as a baseline for our commitment to achieving 100% gender pay equity and we are actively working to close remaining pay gaps.

Available Information

BD maintains a website at www.bd.com. BD makes available its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and its Current Reports on Form 8-K (and amendments to those reports) as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These filings may be obtained and printed free of charge at www.bd.com/investors. 

In addition, the written charters of the Audit Committee; the Compensation and Human Capital Committee; the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee; the Executive Committee; and the Quality and Regulatory Committee of the Board of Directors, BD’s Corporate Governance Principles and its Code of Conduct, are available and may be printed free of charge at BD’s website at investors.bd.com/corporate-governance. Printed copies of these materials, this 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and BD’s reports and statements filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, may also be obtained, without charge, by contacting the Corporate Secretary, BD, 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880, telephone 201-847-6800. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

BD also routinely posts important information for investors on its website at www.bd.com/investors. BD may use this website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD adopted by the SEC. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of BD’s website noted above, in addition to following BD’s press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto shall not be deemed to be incorporated into this Annual Report.

11
Forward-Looking Statements

BD and its representatives may from time-to-time make certain forward-looking statements in publicly-released materials, both written and oral, including statements contained in filings with the SEC and in its reports to shareholders. Additional information regarding BD’s forward-looking statements is contained in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Item 1A. Risk Factors.