Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Introduction

This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader better understand Brown-Forman, our operations, our financial results, and our current business environment. Please read this MD&A in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes contained in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” (the Consolidated Financial Statements). 

Our MD&A is organized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Presentation Basis

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

We use some financial measures in this report that are not measures of financial performance under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These non-GAAP measures, defined below, should be viewed as supplements to (not substitutes for) our results of operations and other measures reported under GAAP. Other companies may not define or calculate these non-GAAP measures in the same way.

“Organic change” in measures of statements of operations. We present changes in certain measures, or line items, of the statements of operations that are adjusted to an “organic” basis. We use “organic change” for the following measures of the statements of operations: (a) organic net sales; (b) organic cost of sales; (c) organic gross profit; (d) organic advertising expenses; (e) organic selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses; (f) organic other expense (income) net; (g) organic operating expenses2; and (h) organic operating income. To calculate these measures, we adjust, as applicable, for (1) acquisitions and divestitures, (2) foreign exchange, (3) impairment charges, and (4) a commitment to our charitable foundation. We explain these adjustments below.

•“Acquisitions and divestitures.” This adjustment removes (a) the gain or loss recognized on sale of divested brands, (b) any non-recurring effects related to our acquisitions and divestitures (e.g., transaction, transition, and integration costs or income), and (c) the effects of operating activity related to acquired and divested brands for periods not comparable year over year (non-comparable periods). Excluding non-comparable periods allows us to include the effects of acquired and divested brands only to the extent that results are comparable year over year.

During fiscal 2021, we sold our Early Times, Canadian Mist, and Collingwood brands and related assets, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $127 million, and entered into a related transition services agreement (TSA) for these brands. Also, during fiscal 2021, we acquired Part Time Rangers Limited, which owns Part Time Rangers RTDs. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

This adjustment removes (a) transaction and integration costs related to the acquisitions and divestitures, (b) the gain on sale of Early Times, Canadian Mist, and Collingwood and related assets, (c) operating activity for the non-comparable period for Early Times, Canadian Mist, and Collingwood, which is activity in the first quarter of fiscal 2021, (d) the net sales and operating expenses recognized pursuant to the TSA related to (i) contract bottling services and (ii) distribution services in certain markets, and (e) operating activity for Part Time Rangers Holdings Limited for the non-comparable period, which is primarily activity in the first two quarters of fiscal 2022. We believe that these adjustments allow for us to better understand our organic results on a comparable basis.

•“Foreign exchange.” We calculate the percentage change in certain line items of the statements of operations in accordance with GAAP and adjust to exclude the cost or benefit of currency fluctuations. Adjusting for foreign exchange allows us to understand our business on a constant-dollar basis, as fluctuations in exchange rates can distort the organic 

2 Operating expenses include advertising expense, SG&A expense, and other expense (income), net.

30

trend both positively and negatively. (In this report, “dollar” always means the U.S. dollar unless stated otherwise.) To eliminate the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations when comparing across periods, we translate current-year results at prior-year rates and remove transactional and hedging foreign exchange gains and losses from current- and prior-year periods. 

•“Impairment Charges.” This adjustment removes the impact of impairment charges from our results of operations. 

During the first three quarters of fiscal 2022, we recognized non-cash impairment charges of $9 million for certain fixed assets. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, we recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $52 million for our Finlandia brand name. See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” below and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.We believe that these adjustments allow for us to better understand our organic results on a comparable basis.

•“Foundation.” During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we committed $20 million to the Brown-Forman Foundation (the Foundation) to support the communities where our employees live and work. This adjustment removes the $20 million commitment to the Foundation from our organic SG&A expenses and organic operating income to present our organic results on a comparable basis.

We use the non-GAAP measure “organic change”, along with other metrics, to: (a) understand our performance from period to period on a consistent basis; (b) compare our performance to that of our competitors; (c) calculate components of management incentive compensation; (d) plan and forecast; and (e) communicate our financial performance to the Board of Directors, stockholders, and investment community. We provide reconciliations of the “organic change” in certain line items of the statements of operations to their nearest GAAP measures in the tables under “Results of Operations - Fiscal 2022 Highlights” and “Results of Operations - Year-Over-Year Comparisons.” We have consistently applied the adjustments within our reconciliations in arriving at each non-GAAP measure. We believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to readers and investors because they enhance the understanding of our historical financial performance and comparability between periods.

As of the third quarter ended January 31, 2022, we changed certain non-GAAP financial measures that we have historically used. We no longer report “underlying changes” in certain measures of the statements of operations; instead, we now report “organic change” for certain measures of the statements of operations. “Organic change” includes all of the non-GAAP adjustments that we have historically made in adjusting GAAP to “underlying change” results, except that “organic change” does not include an adjustment for “estimated net change in distributor inventories,” which reflected the estimated net effect of changes in distributor inventories on changes in certain line items of the statements of operations. This change to our non-GAAP financial measures was in response to comments from and discussions with the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Although we no longer provide non-GAAP financial measures that adjust for “estimated net change in distributor inventories,” we still believe that our results are affected by changes in distributor inventories, particularly in our largest market, the United States, where the spirits industry is subject to regulations that essentially mandate a so-called “three-tier system,” with a value chain that includes suppliers, distributors and retailers. Accordingly, we continue to provide information concerning fluctuations in distributor inventories. We believe such information is useful in understanding our performance and trends as it provides relevant information regarding customers’ demand for our products.

“Return on average invested capital.” This measure refers to the sum of net income and after-tax interest expense, divided by average invested capital. Average invested capital equals assets less liabilities, excluding interest-bearing debt, and is calculated using the average of the most recent 13 month-end balances. After-tax interest expense equals interest expense multiplied by one minus our effective tax rate. We use this non-GAAP measure because we consider it to be a meaningful indicator of how effectively and efficiently we invest capital in our business.

Definitions

Aggregations.

From time to time, to explain our results of operations or to highlight trends and uncertainties affecting our business, we aggregate markets according to stage of economic development as defined by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and we aggregate brands by beverage alcohol category. Below, we define the geographic and brand aggregations used in this report.

Geographic Aggregations.

In “Results of Operations - Fiscal 2022 Market Highlights,” we provide supplemental information for our largest markets ranked by percentage of total fiscal 2022 net sales. In addition to markets listed by country name, we include the following aggregations:

31

•“Developed International” markets are “advanced economies” as defined by the IMF, excluding the United States. In fiscal 2022, our largest developed international markets were Germany, Australia, the United Kingdom, and France. This aggregation represents our net sales of branded products to these markets.

•“Emerging” markets are “emerging and developing economies” as defined by the IMF. In fiscal 2022, our largest emerging markets were Mexico, Poland, Brazil, Russia, and Chile. This aggregation represents our net sales of branded products to these markets.

•“Travel Retail” represents our net sales of branded products to global duty-free customers, other travel retail customers, and the U.S. military, regardless of customer location.

•“Non-branded and bulk” includes our net sales of used barrels, contract bottling, and bulk whiskey and wine, regardless of customer location.

Brand Aggregations.

In “Results of Operations - Fiscal 2022 Brand Highlights,” we provide supplemental information for our largest brands ranked by percentage of total fiscal 2022 net sales. In addition to brands listed by name, we include the following aggregations:

•“Whiskey” includes all whiskey spirits and whiskey-based flavored liqueurs, ready-to-drink (RTD), and ready-to-pour products (RTP). The brands included in this category are the Jack Daniel’s family of brands, the Woodford Reserve family of brands (Woodford Reserve), the Old Forester family of brands (Old Forester), GlenDronach, Benriach, Glenglassaugh, Slane Irish Whiskey, and Coopers’ Craft.

•“American whiskey” includes the Jack Daniel’s family of brands and premium bourbons (defined below).

•“Jack Daniel's family of brands” includes Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey (JDTW), Jack Daniel’s RTD and RTP products (JD RTD/RTP), Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Honey (JDTH), Gentleman Jack, Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Fire (JDTF), Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Apple (JDTA), Jack Daniel’s Single Barrel Collection (JDSB), Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Rye Whiskey (JDTR), Jack Daniel’s Sinatra Select, Jack Daniel’s Bonded, Jack Daniel’s No. 27 Gold Tennessee Whiskey, Jack Daniel’s Bottled-in-Bond, Jack Daniel’s 10 Year Old, and Jack Daniel’s Triple Mash.

•“Jack Daniel’s RTD and RTP” products include all RTD line extensions of Jack Daniel’s, such as Jack Daniel’s & Cola, Jack Daniel’s Country Cocktails, Jack Daniel’s Double Jack, and other malt- and spirit-based Jack Daniel’s RTDs along with Jack Daniel’s Winter Jack RTP.

•“Premium bourbons” includes Woodford Reserve, Old Forester, and Coopers’ Craft.

•“Super-premium American whiskey” includes Woodford Reserve, Gentleman Jack, and other super-premium Jack Daniel's expressions.

•“Tequila” includes the Herradura family of brands (Herradura), el Jimador, New Mix, and other tequilas. 

•“Wine” includes Korbel Champagnes and Sonoma-Cutrer wines. 

•“Vodka” includes Finlandia.

•“Non-branded and bulk” includes our net sales of used barrels, contract bottling, and bulk whiskey and wine.

Other Metrics.

•“Shipments.” We generally record revenues when we ship or deliver our products to our customers. In this report, unless otherwise specified, we refer to shipments when discussing volume.

•“Depletions.” This is a term commonly used in the beverage alcohol industry to describe volume. Depending on the context, depletions usually means either (a) where Brown-Forman is the distributor, shipments directly to retail or wholesale customers or (b) where Brown-Forman is not the distributor, shipments from distributor customers to retailers and wholesalers. We believe that depletions measure volume in a way that more closely reflects consumer demand than our shipments to distributor customers do.

•“Consumer takeaway.” When discussing trends in the market, we refer to consumer takeaway, a term commonly used in the beverage alcohol industry that refers to the purchase of product by consumers from retail outlets, including products purchased through e-commerce channels, as measured by volume or retail sales value. This information is provided by 

32

third parties, such as Nielsen and the National Alcohol Beverage Control Association (NABCA). Our estimates of market share or changes in market share are derived from consumer takeaway data using the retail sales value metric. We believe consumer takeaway is a leading indicator of consumer demand trends.

•“Estimated net change in distributor inventories.” We generally recognize revenue when our products are shipped or delivered to customers. In the United States and certain other markets, our customers are distributors that sell downstream to retailers and consumers. We believe that our distributors’ downstream sales more closely reflect actual consumer demand than do our shipments to distributors. Our shipments increase distributors’ inventories, while distributors’ depletions (as described above) reduce their inventories. Therefore, it is possible that our shipments do not coincide with distributors’ downstream depletions and merely reflect changes in distributors’ inventories. Because changes in distributors’ inventories could affect our trends, we believe it is useful for investors to understand those changes in the context of our operating results. 

We perform the following calculation to determine the “estimated net change in distributor inventories”:

•For both the current-year period and the comparable prior-year period, we calculate a “depletion-based” amount by (a) dividing the organic dollar amount (e.g. organic net sales) by the corresponding shipment volumes to arrive at a shipment per case amount, and (b) multiplying the resulting shipment per case amount by the corresponding depletion volumes. We subtract the year-over-year percentage change of the “depletion-based” amount from the year-over-year percentage change of the organic amount to calculate the “estimated net change in distributor inventories.”

•A positive difference is interpreted as a net increase in distributors’ inventories, which implies that organic trends could decrease as distributors’ reduce inventories; whereas, a negative difference is interpreted as a net decrease in distributors’ inventories, which implies that organic trends could increase as distributors rebuild inventories.

33

Significant Developments

Below we discuss the significant developments in our business during fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2022. These developments relate to the COVID-19 pandemic (COVID-19), supply chain disruptions, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, innovation, and capital deployment.

COVID-19

We experienced strong, broad-based reported net sales growth across all of our geographic clusters and Travel Retail channel due to the gradual re-opening of the on-premise channel, some degree of travel and tourism returning, and growing premiumization trends. While the financial impact of COVID-19 on our business is difficult to measure, we believe the timing and pace of global vaccination rates, governmental actions to lower or eliminate restrictions in certain economies around the world, and the post-pandemic economic recovery positively impacted our results when compared to the same prior-year period. We further discuss the effect of COVID-19 on our results where relevant below.

Supply Chain Disruptions

Our results were negatively impacted by supply chain disruptions, largely related to glass supply. These disruptions curtailed our ability to fully meet demand and therefore negatively affected our net sales. Additionally, we incurred higher input and transportation costs due to the supply chain disruptions. We further discuss the effect of supply chain disruptions on our results where relevant below.

Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, which began in February 2022, had a negative effect on our fiscal 2022 operating results. The most significant effect was the $52 million non-cash impairment charge for our Finlandia brand name (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information), which reflects a decline in our long-term outlook for Finlandia due to the suspension of operations in Russia, a key market for the brand. Additionally, operating income was negatively affected by other items attributable to the conflict such as (a) the suspension of our commercial operations in Russia and our diminished ability to conduct business in Ukraine, (b) bad debt expense, (c) inventory write-offs, and (d) severance expense. These negative effects were partially offset by the gain on terminated Russian ruble hedge contracts. 

Although reported net sales were negatively affected by the suspension of our commercial operations in Russia and our diminished ability to conduct business in Ukraine as a result of the conflict, the overall impact was not material to our consolidated full-year reported net sales growth rate, because (a) Russia and Ukraine represent a small share of total reported net sales and (b) the impact occurred in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. Prior to the onset of the conflict, Russia and Ukraine represented approximately 2% of our reported net sales. We expect the conflict to have a more significant negative effect on our fiscal 2023 reported net sales results, reflecting a full-year impact of the suspension of commercial operations in Russia, and the ongoing disruption of our business in Ukraine. We further discuss the effect of the conflict on our fiscal 2022 results where relevant below.

Innovation

•Jack Daniel’s family of brands. Innovation within the Jack Daniel’s family of brands has contributed to our growth in the last two years as described below.

◦In fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2022, we continued the international launch of Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Apple, expanding to certain developed international and emerging markets. 

◦In fiscal 2021, we introduced new spirit-based RTD products in the United States.

◦In fiscal 2022, we launched Jack Daniel’s 10 Year Old in the United States.

•Tequila brands. Tequila continues to be an attractive category, particularly in the United States, with both Herradura and el Jimador contributing significantly to our overall net sales growth. In fiscal 2021, we introduced Herradura Legend in the United States.

Capital Deployment

•We have focused our capital deployment initiatives on (a) ensuring adequate liquidity and flexibility during the COVID-19 pandemic, (b) fully investing in our existing business, (c) continued execution of our acquisitions and divestitures strategy, and (d) returning cash to our stockholders through regular and special dividends.

34

•Investments. During fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2022, our capital expenditures totaled $200 million and focused on enabling the growth of our premium whiskey brands:

◦During fiscal 2021, a $125 million capital investment was approved by our Board of Directors to expand our bourbon-making capacity in Kentucky to meet anticipated future consumer demand.

◦During fiscal 2022, a $50 million capital investment was approved by our Board of Directors to expand our scotch-making capacity to meet anticipated future consumer demand. 

◦To support the continued growth of JDTW, we built an additional barrel warehouse at our Jack Daniel’s distillery during fiscal 2022. 

•Acquisitions and divestitures. During fiscal 2021, we sold our Early Times, Canadian Mist, and Collingwood brands and related assets. Also in fiscal 2021, we acquired Part Time Rangers Holdings Limited, which owns Part Time Rangers RTDs. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

•Cash returned to stockholders. During fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2022, we returned $1.2 billion to our stockholders through regular and special dividends.

35

Executive Summary

Fiscal 2022 Highlights

•We delivered reported net sales of $3.9 billion, an increase of 14% compared to fiscal 2021. Reported net sales growth was driven by higher volumes and favorable price/mix, partially offset by the negative effect of foreign exchange and the effect of acquisitions and divestitures. An estimated net increase in distributor inventories positively impacted reported net sales. Organic net sales increased 17% compared to fiscal 2021.

◦From a brand perspective, reported net sales growth was driven by JDTW, our tequilas, and premium bourbons.

◦From a geographic perspective, the United States, emerging markets, developed international markets, and the Travel Retail channel all contributed significantly to reported net sales growth. 

Supply chain disruptions had an adverse effect on results.

•We delivered reported operating income of $1.2 billion, an increase of 3% compared to fiscal 2021. The increase in reported operating income was driven by reported net sales growth and the absence of the $20 million commitment to the Foundation in fiscal 2021, partially offset by (a) the effect of acquisitions and divestitures (primarily the fiscal 2021 gain on sale of Early Times, Canadian Mist, and Collingwood), (b) impairment charges, and (c) the negative effect of foreign exchange. Organic operating income increased 27% compared to fiscal 2021.

•We delivered diluted earnings per share of $1.74, a decrease of 7% compared to fiscal 2021, due to higher income taxes, partially offset by an increase in reported operating income. Earnings per share in fiscal 2021 included an estimated $0.20 per share benefit from the gain on sale of Early Times, Canadian Mist, and Collingwood and related assets.

•Our return on average invested capital decreased to 17.7% in fiscal 2022, compared to 19.6% in fiscal 2021, driven primarily by higher income taxes. Return on average invested capital in fiscal 2021 benefited from the gain on sale of Early Times, Canadian Mist, and Collingwood and related assets.

36

Summary of Operating Performance Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2022[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” above for details on our use of “organic change” and “return on average invested capital,” including how we calculate these measures and why we think this information is useful to readers.

2Operating expenses include advertising expense, SG&A expense, and other expense (income), net.

3Year-over-year changes in percentages are reported in percentage points (pp).

37

Results of Operations

Fiscal 2022 Market Highlights

The following table shows net sales results for our largest markets, summarized by geographic area, for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021. We discuss results of the markets most affecting our performance below the table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1See “Definitions” above for definitions of market aggregations presented here.

2See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” above for details on our use of “organic change” in net sales, including how we calculate this measure and why we believe this information is useful to readers.

Reported net sales for some of the markets discussed below were positively impacted by comparisons against COVID-19-related declines during fiscal 2021. See “Significant Developments - COVID-19” above for more information on the impact of COVID-19 on our results.

The United States, our most important market, grew reported net sales 10%, led by (a) JDTW, fueled by higher volumes and a favorable channel mix shift to the on-premise channel; (b) our premium bourbons, due to higher volumes and prices of Woodford Reserve and Old Forester; (c) our tequilas, driven by higher volumes of Herradura and el Jimador; and (d) volumetric growth of Sonoma-Cutrer. An estimated net increase in distributor inventories positively impacted reported net sales. This growth was partially offset by the effect of acquisitions and divestitures along with lower volumes of JDTH. Supply chain disruptions had an adverse effect on results.

Developed International 

•Germany’s reported net sales increased 11%, fueled by volumetric gains of JDTW and JD RTDs, partially offset by the negative effect of foreign exchange.

•Australia’s reported net sales increased 5%, driven primarily by higher pricing of JD RTDs, partially offset by the negative effect of foreign exchange.

38

•The United Kingdom’s reported net sales increased 7%, led by volumetric growth of JDTW, partially offset by the negative effect of foreign exchange. Supply chain disruptions had an adverse effect on results.

•Reported net sales in the Rest of Developed International increased 32%, fueled by JDTW growth in Spain, Japan, and Korea, partially offset by the negative effect of foreign exchange. An estimated net increase in distributor inventories positively impacted reported net sales. Supply chain disruptions had an adverse effect on results.

Emerging 

•Mexico’s reported net sales increased 19%, driven by broad-based growth across our portfolio of brands, led by Herradura and JDTW, along with the positive effect of foreign exchange. Supply chain disruptions had an adverse effect on results.

•Poland’s reported net sales increased 9%, led by JDTW and Finlandia, partially offset by the negative effect of foreign exchange. Supply chain disruptions had an adverse effect on results.

•Brazil’s reported net sales increased 22%, fueled by the launch of JDTA, favorable price/mix of JDTW, and higher volumes of JDTH. Supply chain disruptions had an adverse effect on results. 

•Russia’s reported net sales increased 7%, led by the launch of JDTA and higher pricing of Finlandia, partially offset by the negative effect of foreign exchange. Our fiscal 2022 reported net sales were adversely impacted by the suspension of our commercial operations in Russia due to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Our fiscal 2023 outlook reflects the expected impact of a full-year suspension of our commercial operations in Russia.

•Chile’s reported net sales increased 64%, driven by broad-based growth across much of our portfolio, led by higher volumes of JDTW and the launch of JDTA. Supply chain disruptions had an adverse effect on results. 

•Reported net sales in the Rest of Emerging increased 34%, driven primarily by JDTW gains, led by Turkey, Romania, and the United Arab Emirates. This growth was partially offset by the negative effect of foreign exchange (reflecting the strengthening of the dollar primarily against the Turkish lira). An estimated net increase in distributor inventories positively impacted reported net sales.

Travel Retail reported net sales increased 65%, fueled by higher volumes across much of our portfolio, led by JDTW, as we cycled against significant declines during the same prior-year period, partially offset by unfavorable price/mix. 

Non-branded and bulk reported net sales increased 6%, driven by higher volumes for used barrels.

39

Fiscal 2022 Brand Highlights

The following table highlights the global results of our largest brands for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021. We discuss results of the brands most affecting our performance below the table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1See “Definitions” above for definitions of brand aggregations and volume measures presented here.

2See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” above for details on our use of “organic change” in net sales, including how we calculate this measure and why we believe this information is useful to readers.

Reported net sales for some of the brands discussed below were positively impacted by comparisons against COVID-19-related declines during fiscal 2021. See “Significant Developments - COVID-19” above for more information on the impact of COVID-19 on our results.

Whiskey 

•The Jack Daniel's family of brands grew reported net sales 15%, driven by the broad-based growth of JDTW.

•JDTW generates a significant percentage of our total net sales and is our top priority. Reported net sales increased 20%, driven by (a) broad-based volume growth in the United States, developed international markets, and emerging markets; and (b) a favorable channel mix shift to the on-premise. An estimated net increase in distributor inventories positively impacted reported net sales. This growth was partially offset by the negative effect of foreign exchange. Supply chain disruptions had an adverse effect on results. 

•Jack Daniel's RTD/RTP grew reported net sales 6%, driven primarily by Australia and Germany. 

•Reported net sales for JDTH were flat, as broad-based gains in our international markets were offset by declines in the United States and the negative effect of foreign exchange. Supply chain disruptions had an adverse effect on results.

40

•JDTF grew reported net sales 16%, led by growth in emerging markets along with the positive effect of foreign exchange. An estimated net increase in distributor inventories positively impacted reported net sales. Supply chain disruptions had an adverse effect on results.

•JDTA grew reported net sales 44%, fueled by the continued international launch in our emerging markets, most notably in Chile and Brazil, along with volumetric gains in the United States. An estimated net increase in distributor inventories positively impacted reported net sales.

•Other Jack Daniel’s whiskey brands grew reported net sales 17%, largely driven by higher volumes in the United States reflecting the April 2022 inventory build in advance of the launch of Jack Daniel’s Bonded and Jack Daniel’s Triple Mash.

•Woodford Reserve’s reported net sales increased 16%, fueled by higher volumes and prices in the United States along with volumetric gains in Travel Retail. Supply chain disruptions had an adverse effect on results.

•Rest of Whiskey reported net sales declined 10% due to the effect of acquisitions and divestitures, partially offset by growth of Old Forester, BenRiach, and GlenDronach. An estimated net increase in distributor inventories positively impacted reported net sales.

Tequila

•Herradura’s reported net sales increased 29%, fueled by growth in the United States and Mexico. 

•el Jimador’s reported net sales increased 27%, driven by broad-based volume growth led by the United States, Colombia, and Mexico.

Wine reported net sales increased 6%, driven primarily by higher volumes of Sonoma-Cutrer due to the reopening of the on-premise channel in the United States. An estimated net increase in distributor inventories positively impacted reported net sales.

Vodka (Finlandia) reported net sales increased 21% led by broad-based growth in emerging markets. Russia and Ukraine are key markets for Finlandia. Our fiscal 2023 outlook reflects the expected impact of a full-year suspension of our commercial operations in Russia and the ongoing impact on our ability to conduct business in Ukraine.

Rest of Portfolio reported net sales increased 10%, largely driven by the growth of Chambord in the United Kingdom and United States, partially offset by the negative effect of foreign exchange.

Non-branded and bulk. See discussion for this aggregation in “Results of Operations - Fiscal 2022 Market Highlights” above.

41

Year-Over-Year Comparisons

Commentary below compares fiscal 2022 to fiscal 2021 results. A comparison of fiscal 2021 to fiscal 2020 results may be found in “Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2021 (2021 Form 10-K).

Reported net sales for some markets and brands were positively impacted by comparisons against COVID-19-related declines during fiscal 2021. See “Significant Developments - COVID-19” above for more information.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Reported net sales of $3.9 billion increased 14%, or $472 million, in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021. Reported net sales growth was driven by higher volumes and favorable price/mix, partially offset by the negative effect of foreign exchange and the effect of acquisitions and divestitures. An estimated net increase in distributor inventories positively impacted reported net sales. Volume growth was driven by the Jack Daniel’s family of brands, led by JDTW, JD RTDs, and JDTA. Favorable price/mix was driven by faster growth from our higher-priced brands, led by JDTW, and a favorable channel mix shift due to the continued re-opening of the on-premise channel. Supply chain disruptions had an adverse effect on results. See “Results of Operations - Fiscal 2022 Market Highlights” and “Results of Operations - Fiscal 2022 Brand Highlights” above for details on the factors contributing to the change in reported net sales for fiscal 2022.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Reported cost of sales of $1.5 billion increased $175 million, or 13%, in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021. The increase was driven by higher volumes and unfavorable cost/mix, partially offset by the effect of acquisitions and divestitures and the positive effect of foreign exchange. An estimated net increase in distributor inventories negatively impacted reported cost of sales. Volume growth was driven by the Jack Daniel’s family of brands, led by JDTW, JD RTDs, and JDTA. Unfavorable cost/mix reflects (a) a shift in portfolio mix toward our higher-cost brands, (b) higher costs related to supply chain disruptions, (c) higher input costs related to grain and agave, and (d) inventory write-offs attributable to the impacts of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. 

42

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Reported gross profit of $2.4 billion increased $297 million, or 14%, in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021. Gross margin increased to 60.8% in fiscal 2022, up 0.3 percentage points from 60.5% in fiscal 2021. The increase in gross margin was driven primarily by favorable price/mix and the effect of acquisitions and divestitures, largely offset by unfavorable cost/mix.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1Operating expenses include advertising expense, SG&A expense, and other expense (income), net.

Reported operating expenses totaled $1.2 billion and increased $132 million, or 13%, in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021. 

•Reported advertising expenses increased 10% in fiscal 2022, driven primarily by higher spend in our developed international and emerging markets to support JDTW and the continued launch of JDTA. 

•Reported SG&A expenses increased 3% in fiscal 2022, driven primarily by (a) comparison to lower discretionary spend during fiscal 2021 due to COVID-19, (b) higher compensation and benefit-related expenses, and (c) expenses attributable to the impacts of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. This increase in spend was partially offset by the absence of the $20 million commitment to the Foundation in fiscal 2021 and the positive effect of foreign exchange. 

43

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Reported operating income was $1.2 billion in fiscal 2022, an increase of $38 million, or 3%, compared to fiscal 2021. Operating margin declined 3.1 percentage points to 30.6% in fiscal 2022 from 33.7% in fiscal 2021 driven by (a) the effect of acquisitions and divestitures (primarily the fiscal 2021 gain on sale of Early Times, Canadian Mist, and Collingwood and related assets), (b) unfavorable cost/mix, (c) impairment charges (primarily the non-cash impairment charge for our Finlandia brand name), and (d) the negative effect of foreign exchange. These factors were partially offset by (a) favorable price/mix, (b) operating expense (excluding impairment charges) leverage, and (c) the absence of the $20 million commitment to the Foundation in fiscal 2021.

Interest expense (net) decreased $2 million, or 4%, in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021, due to higher interest income driven by higher interest rates on our interest-bearing investments.

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 was 24.8% compared to 16.5% in fiscal 2021. The increase in our effective tax rate was driven primarily by (a) the absence of a deferred tax benefit recognized in the prior-year related to an intercompany transfer of assets, (b) the impact of prior intercompany sales of inventory taxed at rates higher than current statutory tax rates, (c) increased expense from true-ups of prior-year tax liabilities, tax rate changes and other permanent differences; and (d) decreased benefit from stock-based compensation. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details.

Diluted earnings per share were $1.74 in fiscal 2022, a decrease of 7% compared to fiscal 2021 due to higher income taxes, partially offset by an increase in reported operating income. Earnings per share in fiscal 2021 included an estimated $0.20 per share benefit from the gain on sale of Early Times, Canadian Mist, and Collingwood and related assets.

Fiscal 2023 Outlook

Below we discuss our outlook for fiscal 2023 which reflects the trends, developments, and uncertainties, including those described above, we expect to affect our business. When we provide guidance for organic change in certain measures of the statements of operations we do not provide guidance for the corresponding GAAP change because the GAAP measure will include items that are difficult to quantify or predict with reasonable certainty, such as foreign exchange, which could have a significant impact to our GAAP income statement measures.

The company anticipates continued growth in fiscal 2023 despite global macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainties. Accordingly, we expect the following in fiscal 2023:

•Reflecting the strength of our portfolio of brands and strong consumer demand, we expect organic net sales growth in the mid-single digit range. 

•Considering the net effect of inflation and the removal of the European Union and United Kingdom tariffs on American whiskey, we project reported gross margin to increase slightly.

•Based on the above expectations, we anticipate mid-single digit organic operating income growth.

•We expect our fiscal 2023 effective tax rate to be in the range of approximately 22% to 23%. 

•Capital expenditures are planned to be in the range of $190 to $210 million.

44

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We generate strong cash flows from operations, which enable us to meet current obligations, fund capital expenditures, and return cash to our stockholders through regular dividends and, from time to time, through share repurchases and special dividends. We believe our investment-grade credit ratings (A1 by Moody's and A- by Standard & Poor's) provide us with financial flexibility when accessing global debt capital markets and allow us to reserve adequate debt capacity for investment opportunities and unforeseen events.

Our cash flow from operations is supplemented by our cash and cash equivalent balances, as well as access to other liquidity sources. Cash and cash equivalents were $1,150 million at April 30, 2021, and $868 million at April 30, 2022. As of April 30, 2022, approximately 71% of our cash and cash equivalents were held by our foreign subsidiaries whose earnings we expect to reinvest indefinitely outside of the United States. We continue to evaluate our future cash deployment and may decide to repatriate additional cash held by our foreign subsidiaries, which may require us to provide for and pay additional taxes.

We have an $800 million commercial paper program that we use, together with our cash flow from operations, to fund our short-term operational needs. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for outstanding commercial paper balances, interest rates, and days to maturity at April 30, 2021 and April 30, 2022. The average balances, interest rates, and original maturities during the periods ended April 30, 2021 and 2022, are presented below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our commercial paper program is supported by available commitments under our $800 million bank credit facility. The credit facility, which was extended for an additional year in November 2021, is scheduled to expire in November 2024. At April 30, 2022, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility. Although unlikely, under extreme market conditions, one or more participating banks may not be able to fund its commitments under our credit facility. To manage this counterparty credit risk, we partner with banks that have investment grade credit ratings, limit the amount of exposure we have with each bank, and monitor the financial conditions of each bank.

Our most significant short-term cash requirements relate primarily to funding our operations (such as expenditures for raw materials, production and distribution, advertising and promotion, and current taxes), repayment of our note maturing in 2023, and capital investments. Our most significant longer-term cash requirements primarily include payments related to our long-term debt, employee benefit obligations, and deferred tax liabilities (see Notes 6, 9 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

While we expect to meet our planned short-term liquidity needs largely through cash generated from operations and borrowings under our commercial paper program, a sustained market deterioration resulting in declines in net sales and profit could require us to evaluate alternative sources of liquidity. If we have additional liquidity needs, we believe that we could access financing in the debt capital markets.

We believe our current liquidity position, supplemented by our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations in the future, and our ample debt capacity enabled by our strong short-term and long-term credit ratings, will be sufficient to meet all of our expected future financial commitments.

45

Cash Flow Summary

The following table summarizes our cash flows for each of the last two years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash provided by operations of $936 million increased $119 million from fiscal 2021, reflecting improved operating results and the impact of changes in working capital, which included the collection in December 2021 of approximately $62 million of accounts receivable from Bacardi that had been withheld since fiscal 2021. (See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details about the Bacardi matter.)

Cash flows from investing activities decreased $127 million during fiscal 2022, compared to an increase of $98 million during the prior year. The $225 million change largely reflects (a) the proceeds of $177 million received in the prior-year period from our divestiture of the Early Times, Canadian Mist, and Collingwood brands and related assets and (b) a $76 million increase in capital expenditures.

Cash used for financing activities was $1,038 million during fiscal 2022, compared to $485 million for fiscal 2021. The $553 million increase largely reflects a special cash dividend payment of $479 million in December 2021 and a $70 million increase in net repayments of short-term borrowings.

A discussion of our cash flows for fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 may be found in “Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 30, 2021.

Dividends

As announced in November 2021, our Board of Directors approved a 5% increase in the quarterly cash dividend on our Class A and Class B common stock to $0.1885 per share from $0.1795 per share, effective with the regular quarterly dividend paid on December 28, 2021. As a result, the indicated annual cash dividend increased from $0.7180 per share to $0.7540 per share. The Board also declared a special cash dividend of $1.00 per share on our Class A and Class B common stock, which was paid on December 29, 2021.

As announced on May 26, 2022, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend on our Class A and Class B common stock of $0.1885 per share. Stockholders of record on June 8, 2022, will receive the dividend on July 1, 2022.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our financial statements reflect some estimates involved in applying the following critical accounting policies that entail uncertainties and subjectivity. Using different estimates or policies could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition.

46

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 

We have obtained most of our brands by acquiring other companies. When we acquire another company, we first allocate the purchase price to identifiable assets and liabilities, including intangible brand names and trademarks (“brand names”), based on estimated fair value. We then record any remaining purchase price as goodwill. We do not amortize goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. We consider all of our brand names to have indefinite lives.

We assess our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate the carrying amount may be impaired. Goodwill is impaired when the carrying amount of the related reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, in which case we write down the goodwill by the amount of the excess (limited to the carrying amount of the goodwill). We estimate the reporting unit's fair value using discounted estimated future cash flows or market information. Similarly, a brand name is impaired when its carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value, in which case we write down the brand name to its estimated fair value. We estimate the fair value of a brand name using the “relief from royalty” method. We also consider market values for similar assets when available. Considerable management judgment is necessary to estimate fair value, including making assumptions about future cash flows, net sales, discount rates, and royalty rates.

We have the option, before quantifying the fair value of a reporting unit or brand name, to evaluate qualitative factors to assess whether it is more likely than not that our goodwill or brand names are impaired. If we determine that is not the case, then we are not required to quantify the fair value. That assessment also takes considerable management judgment.

Based on our assumptions, we believe none of our goodwill or other intangibles are impaired as of April 30, 2022. Further, we estimate the fair values of goodwill and other intangible assets substantially exceed their carrying amounts, except for our Finlandia brand name. As of April 30, 2022, the carrying amount of the Finlandia brand name is $181 million. 

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, we recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $52 million for the Finlandia brand name. The impairment reflects a decline in our long-term outlook for Finlandia due to our suspension of operations in Russia, a key market for the brand. We determined Finlandia’s fair value based on the “relief from royalty” method, using current assumptions. Reasonably possible changes in those assumptions could result in additional non-cash impairment charges in the future. For example, we estimate that, all else equal, (a) a 15% decline in projected future net sales would result in an impairment charge of approximately $19 million or (b) a 1 percentage point increase in the discount rate would result in an impairment charge of approximately $29 million.

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits 

We sponsor various defined benefit pension plans and postretirement plans providing retiree health care and retiree life insurance benefits. Benefits are based on factors such as years of service and compensation level during employment. We expense the benefits expected to be paid over employees' expected service. This requires us to make assumptions to determine the net benefit costs and obligations, such as discount rates, return on plan assets, the rate of salary increases, expected service, and health care cost trend rates. We review these assumptions annually and modify them based on current rates and trends when appropriate. The assumptions also reflect our historical experience and management's best judgment regarding future expectations. We believe the discount rates and expected return on plan assets are the most significant assumptions.

The discount rate used to measure the benefit obligations is determined at the beginning of each fiscal year using a yield curve based on the interest rates of high-quality debt securities with maturities corresponding to the expected timing of our benefit payments. The service cost and interest cost components are measured by applying the specific spot rates along that yield curve. The expected return on pension plan assets reflects expected capital market returns for each asset class that are based on historical returns, adjusted for the expected effects of diversification.

The following table compares the assumed discount rates and expected return on assets used in determining net periodic benefit cost for fiscal 2022 to those to be used in determining that cost for fiscal 2023.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Using these assumptions, we estimate our pension and other postretirement benefit cost for fiscal 2023 will be approximately $21 million, compared to $28 million (excluding settlement charges) for fiscal 2022. Decreasing/increasing the 

47

assumed discount rates by 50 basis points would increase/decrease the total fiscal 2023 cost by approximately $6 million. Decreasing/increasing the assumed return on plan assets by 50 basis points would increase/decrease the total fiscal 2023 cost by approximately $4 million.

Income Taxes

Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions. We establish liabilities when some positions are likely to be challenged and may not succeed, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these liabilities in light of changing circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit. We believe current liabilities are appropriate for all known contingencies, but this situation could change.

Years can elapse before we can resolve a particular matter for which we may have established a tax liability. Although predicting the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter can be difficult, we believe our liabilities reflect the likely outcome of known tax contingencies. Unfavorable settlement of any particular issue could require use of our cash and increase our effective tax rate. Conversely, a favorable resolution could result in reduced cash tax payments, the reversal of previously established liabilities, or some combination of these results, which could reduce our effective tax rate.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk