PART I

Item 1.BUSINESS.

General

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in August 1933 under the name Bristol-Myers Company, as successor to a New York business started in 1887. In 1989, Bristol-Myers Company changed its name to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company as a result of a merger. 

We continue to operate in one segment engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of biopharmaceutical products on a global basis. We expect that our acquisitions of Celgene in 2019 and MyoKardia in 2020 will further position us as a leading biopharmaceutical company, expanding our oncology, hematology, immunology and cardiovascular portfolios with several near-term assets and additional external partnerships. Refer to the Summary of Abbreviated Terms at the end of this 2021 Form 10-K for terms used throughout the document. Our principal strategy is to combine the resources, scale and capability of a pharmaceutical company with the speed and focus on innovation of the biotech industry. Our focus as a biopharmaceutical company is on discovering, developing and delivering transformational medicines for patients facing serious diseases in areas where we believe that we have an opportunity to make a meaningful difference: oncology (both solid tumors and hematology), immunology, cardiovascular and neurology. Our priorities are to continue to renew and diversify our portfolio through launching our new product portfolio, advancing our early, mid and late-stage pipeline, and executing disciplined business development. We remain committed to reducing our debt and returning capital to shareholders. For a further discussion of our strategy initiatives, refer to “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Strategy.”

We compete with other worldwide research-based drug companies, smaller research companies and generic drug manufacturers. Our products are sold worldwide, primarily to wholesalers, distributors, specialty pharmacies, and to a lesser extent, directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics and government agencies. We manufacture products in the U.S. and Puerto Rico and have significant manufacturing operations in two foreign countries. Most of our revenues come from products in the following therapeutic classes: hematology, oncology, cardiovascular and immunology.

The percentage of revenues by significant region/country were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Other revenues include royalties and alliance-related revenues for products not sold by BMS’s regional commercial organizations.

1

Acquisitions, Divestitures and Licensing Arrangements

Acquisitions, divestitures and other licensing arrangements allow us to focus our resources behind growth opportunities that drive the greatest long-term value. For additional information relating to our acquisitions, divestitures, licensing and other arrangements refer to “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Acquisitions, Divestitures, Licensing and Other Arrangements” and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Licensing and Other Arrangements.”

Products, Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity

Our pharmaceutical products include chemically-synthesized or small molecule drugs, products produced from biological processes, called “biologics” and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapies. Small molecule drugs are typically administered orally, e.g., in the form of a pill or tablet, although other drug delivery mechanisms are used as well. Biologics are typically administered to patients through injections or by intravenous infusion. CAR T-cell therapies are administered to patients by intravenous infusion.

Below is a summary of our significant products, including approved indications. For information about our alliance arrangements for certain of the products below, refer to “—Alliances” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 3. Alliances.”

Revlimid® Revlimid (lenalidomide) is an oral immunomodulatory drug that in combination with dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma. Revlimid as a single agent is also indicated as a maintenance therapy in patients with multiple myeloma following autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant. Revlimid has received approvals for several indications in the hematological malignancies including lymphoma and MDS.

Eliquis® Eliquis (apixaban) is an oral Factor Xa inhibitor indicated for the reduction in risk of stroke/systemic embolism in NVAF and for the treatment of DVT/PE and reduction in risk of recurrence following initial therapy. 

Opdivo® Opdivo (nivolumab), a biological product, is a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds to the PD-1 on T and NKT cells. Opdivo has received approvals for several anti-cancer indications including bladder, blood, colon, head and neck, kidney, liver, lung, melanoma, mesothelioma and stomach. The Opdivo+Yervoy regimen also is approved in multiple markets for the treatment of NSCLC, melanoma, mesothelioma, RCC, and CRC. There are several ongoing potentially registrational studies for Opdivo across other tumor types and disease areas, in monotherapy and in combination with Yervoy and various anti-cancer agents.

Pomalyst®/Imnovid® Pomalyst/Imnovid (pomalidomide) is a small molecule that is administered orally and modulates the immune system and other biologically important targets. Pomalyst/Imnovid is indicated for patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least two prior therapies including lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor and have demonstrated disease progression on or within 60 days of completion of the last therapy.

Orencia® Orencia (abatacept), a biological product, is a fusion protein indicated for adult patients with moderately to severely active RA and PsA, for reducing signs and symptoms in certain pediatric patients with moderately to severely active polyarticular JIA and for the treatment of aGVHD, in combination with a calcineurin inhibitor and methotrexate.

Sprycel® Sprycel (dasatinib) is an oral inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinase indicated for the first-line treatment of patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive CML in chronic phase, the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase CML with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including Gleevec* (imatinib mesylate) and the treatment of children and adolescents aged 1 year to 18 years with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive CML. 

Yervoy® Yervoy (ipilimumab), a biological product, is a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma.

2

Abraxane® Abraxane (paclitaxel albumin-bound particles for injectable suspension) is a solvent-free protein-bound chemotherapy product that combines paclitaxel with albumin using our proprietary Nab® technology platform, and is used to treat breast cancer, NSCLC and pancreatic cancer, among others.

Reblozyl® Reblozyl (luspatercept-aamt), a biological product, is an erythroid maturation agent indicated for the treatment of anemia in adult patients with beta thalassemia who require regular red blood cell transfusions and for the treatment of anemia failing an erythropoiesis stimulating agent (“ESA”) in adult patients with very low- to intermediate-risk MDS who have ring sideroblasts and require RBC transfusions.

Empliciti® Empliciti (elotuzumab), a biological product, is a humanized monoclonal antibody for the treatment of multiple myeloma.

Abecma® Abecma (idecabtagene vicleucel) is a B-cell maturation antigen-directed genetically modified autologous CAR T cell therapy indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma after four or more prior lines of therapy, including an immunomodulatory agent, a proteasome inhibitor, and an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody.

Zeposia® Zeposia (ozanimod) is an oral immunomodulatory drug used to treat moderately to severely active UC and relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease, in adults.

Breyanzi® Breyanzi (lisocabtagene maraleucel) is a CD19-directed genetically modified autologous CAR T cell therapy indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy, including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma not otherwise specified, high-grade B-cell lymphoma, primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma, and follicular lymphoma grade 3B.

Inrebic® Inrebic (fedratinib) is an oral kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with intermediate-2 or high-risk primary or secondary (post-polycythemia vera or post-essential thrombocythemia) myelofibrosis.

Onureg® Onureg (azacitidine) is an oral hypomethylating agent that incorporates into DNA and RNA, indicated for continued treatment of adult patients with AML who achieved first complete remission or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery following intensive induction chemotherapy and are not able to complete intensive curative therapy.

We own or license a number of patents in the U.S. and foreign countries primarily covering our products. We have also developed many brand names and trademarks for our products. We consider the overall protection of our patents, trademarks, licenses and other intellectual property rights to be of material value and act to protect these rights from infringement.

In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. A product’s market exclusivity is generally determined by two forms of intellectual property: patent rights held by the innovator company and any regulatory forms of exclusivity to which the innovative drug is entitled.

Patents are a key determinant of market exclusivity for most branded pharmaceuticals. Patents provide the innovator with the right to exclude others from practicing an invention related to the medicine. Patents may cover, among other things, the active ingredient(s), various uses of a drug product, pharmaceutical formulations, drug delivery mechanisms and processes for (or intermediates useful in) the manufacture of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the expiration dates of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, its scope of coverage and the availability of meaningful legal remedies in the country.

Market exclusivity is also sometimes influenced by regulatory data protection exclusivity rights. Many developed countries provide certain non-patent incentives for the development of medicines. For example, in the U.S., EU, Japan and certain other countries, RDP exclusivity rights are offered as incentives for research on medicines for rare diseases, or orphan drugs, and on medicines useful in treating pediatric patients. These incentives can provide a market exclusivity period on a product that expires beyond the patent term.

3

The U.S., EU and Japan each provide regulatory data protection, a period of time after the approval of a new drug during which the regulatory agency may not rely upon the innovator’s data to approve a competitor’s generic copy. In certain markets where patent protection and other forms of market exclusivity may have expired, regulatory data protection can be of particular importance. However, most regulatory forms of exclusivity do not prevent a competitor from gaining regulatory approval prior to the expiration of regulatory data protection exclusivity on the basis of the competitor’s own safety and efficacy data on its drug, even when that drug is identical to that marketed by the innovator. When these patent rights and other forms of exclusivity expire and generic versions of a medicine are approved and marketed, there are often substantial and rapid declines in the sales of the original innovative product. For further discussion of the impact of generic competition on our business, refer to “—Competition” below.

Specific aspects of the law governing market exclusivity and data regulatory protection for pharmaceuticals vary from country to country. The following summarizes key exclusivity rules in markets representing significant sales:

United States

In the U.S., most of our key products are protected by patents with varying terms depending on the type of patent and the filing date. A significant portion of a product’s patent life, however, is lost during the time it takes an innovative company to develop and obtain regulatory approval of a new drug. As compensation at least in part for the lost patent term due to regulatory review periods, the innovator may, depending on a number of factors, apply to the government to restore lost patent term by extending the expiration date of one patent up to a maximum term of five years, provided that the extension cannot cause the patent to be in effect for more than 14 years from the date of drug approval.

A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical in the U.S. must submit a complete set of safety and efficacy data to the FDA. If the innovative pharmaceutical is a chemical product, the company files an NDA. If the medicine is a biological product, a BLA is filed. Both types of applications can receive certain periods of regulatory exclusivity. An NDA or a BLA for a compound that is designated as an orphan drug can receive seven years of exclusivity for an orphan drug indication. During this period, the FDA generally may not approve another application for the same drug product for the same orphan use. A company may also earn six months of additional exclusivity for a drug where specific clinical studies are conducted at the written request of the FDA to study the use of the medicine to treat pediatric patients, and submission to the FDA is made prior to the loss of basic exclusivity. The type of application filed can affect regulatory data protection exclusivity rights as discussed below.

Chemical products

A competitor seeking to launch a generic substitute of a chemical innovative drug in the U.S. must file an aNDA with the FDA. In the aNDA, the generic manufacturer needs to demonstrate only “bioequivalence” between the generic substitute and the approved NDA drug. The aNDA relies upon the safety and efficacy data previously filed by the innovator in its NDA.

An innovator company is required to list certain of its patents covering the medicine with the FDA in what is commonly known as the Orange Book. Absent a successful patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an aNDA until after the innovator’s listed patents expire. However, after the innovator has marketed its product for four years, a generic manufacturer may file an aNDA and allege that one or more of the patents listed in the Orange Book under an innovator’s NDA is invalid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed by the generic product. This allegation is commonly known as a Paragraph IV certification. The innovator then must decide whether to file a patent infringement suit against the generic manufacturer. From time to time, aNDAs including Paragraph IV certifications are filed with respect to certain of our products. We evaluate these aNDAs on a case-by-case basis and, where warranted, file suit against the generic manufacturer to protect our patent rights.

Medicines approved under an NDA can also receive several types of regulatory data protection. An innovative chemical pharmaceutical product is entitled to five years of regulatory data protection in the U.S., during which the FDA cannot approve generic substitutes. If an innovator’s patent is challenged, as described above, a generic manufacturer may file its aNDA after the fourth year of the five-year regulatory data protection period. A pharmaceutical drug product that contains an active ingredient that has been previously approved in an NDA, but is approved in, for example, a new formulation or a new route of administration, but not for the drug itself, or for a new indication on the basis of new clinical studies, may receive three years of regulatory data protection for that formulation, route of administration, or indication.

4

Biologic products

The U.S. healthcare legislation enacted in 2010 created an approval pathway for biosimilar versions of innovative biological products that did not previously exist. Prior to that time, innovative biologics had essentially unlimited regulatory exclusivity. Under the new regulatory mechanism, the FDA can approve products that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative biologics on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full BLA. After an innovator has marketed its product for four years, any manufacturer may file an application for approval of a “biosimilar” version of the innovator product. However, although an application for approval of a biosimilar version may be filed four years after approval of the innovator product, qualified innovative biological products will receive 12 years of regulatory data protection, meaning that the FDA may not approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative biological product was first approved by the FDA. The law also provides a mechanism for innovators to enforce the patents that protect innovative biological products and for biosimilar applicants to challenge the patents. Such patent litigation may begin as early as four years after the innovative biological product is first approved by the FDA.

The increased likelihood of generic and biosimilar challenges to innovators’ intellectual property has increased the risk of loss of innovators’ market exclusivity. First, generic companies have increasingly sought to challenge innovators’ basic patents covering major pharmaceutical products. Second, statutory and regulatory provisions may limit the ability of an innovator company to prevent generic and biosimilar drugs from being approved and launched while patent litigation is ongoing. As a result of all of these developments, among others, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. Our marketed biologic products include Opdivo, Yervoy, Orencia, Reblozyl and Empliciti.

European Union

Patents on pharmaceutical products are generally enforceable in the EU and, as in the U.S., may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process. Such extensions are granted on a country-by-country basis.

The primary route we use to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU is through the “centralized procedure.” This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of an MAA with the EMA. After the EMA evaluates the MAA, it provides a recommendation to the EC and the EC then approves or denies the MAA. It is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the EU through a “mutual recognition procedure,” in which an application is made to a single member state, and if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, then the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states.

After obtaining marketing authorization approval, a company must obtain pricing and reimbursement for the pharmaceutical product, which is typically subject to member state law. In certain EU countries, this process can take place simultaneously while the product is marketed but in other EU countries, this process must be completed before the company can market the new product. The pricing and reimbursement procedure can take months and sometimes years to complete.

Throughout the EU, all products for which marketing authorizations have been filed after October/November 2005 are subject to an “8+2+1” regime. Eight years after the innovator has received its first community authorization for a medicinal product, a generic company may file a MAA for that product with the health authorities. If the MAA is approved, the generic company may not commercialize the product until after either 10 or 11 years have elapsed from the initial marketing authorization granted to the innovator. The possible extension to 11 years is available if the innovator, during the first eight years of the marketing authorization, obtains an additional indication that is of significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing treatments. For products that were filed prior to October/November 2005, there is a 10-year period of regulatory data protection under the centralized procedures and a period of either six or 10 years under the mutual recognition procedure (depending on the member state).

In contrast to the U.S., patents in the EU are not listed with regulatory authorities. Generic versions of pharmaceutical products can be approved after data protection expires, regardless of whether the innovator holds patents covering its drug. Thus, it is possible that an innovator may be seeking to enforce its patents against a generic competitor that is already marketing its product. Also, the European patent system has an opposition procedure in which generic manufacturers may challenge the validity of patents covering innovator products within nine months of grant.

In general, EU law treats chemically-synthesized drugs and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and data protection. In addition to the relevant legislation and annexes related to biologic medicinal products, the EMA has issued guidelines that outline the additional information to be provided for biosimilar products, also known as generic biologics, in order to review an application for marketing approval.

5

Japan

In Japan, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded eight years of regulatory data protection for approved indications and dosage. Patents on pharmaceutical products are enforceable. Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after regulatory data protection and patent expirations. As in the U.S., patents in Japan may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process.

In general, Japanese law treats chemically-synthesized and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity.

Rest of the World

In countries outside of the U.S., the EU and Japan, there is a wide variety of legal systems with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity of pharmaceuticals. Most other developed countries utilize systems similar to either the U.S. or the EU. Among developing countries, some have adopted patent laws and/or regulatory exclusivity laws, while others have not. Some developing countries have formally adopted laws in order to comply with WTO commitments, but have not taken steps to implement these laws in a meaningful way. Enforcement of WTO actions is a long process between governments, and there is no assurance of the outcome. Thus, in assessing the likely future market exclusivity of our innovative drugs in developing countries, we take into account not only formal legal rights but political and other factors as well.

The following chart shows our key products together with the year in which the earliest basic exclusivity loss (patent rights or data exclusivity) is currently estimated to occur in the U.S., the EU and Japan (the “estimated minimum market exclusivity date”). We also sell our pharmaceutical products in other countries; however, data is not provided on a country-by-country basis because individual country revenues are not significant outside the U.S., the EU and Japan. Generally, the estimated minimum market exclusivity date in the table below pertain to the end of regulatory data protection or the Composition of Matter (“COM”) patent expiration for the respective products and patent term restoration (“PTR”) if granted. In situations where there is only data exclusivity without patent protection, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical study data to obtain marketing approval prior to the expiration of regulatory data protection.

We estimate the minimum market exclusivity date for each of our products for the purpose of business planning only. The length of market exclusivity for any of our products is impossible to predict with certainty because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms of exclusivity and the inherent uncertainties regarding patent litigation. There can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimate or that the exclusivity will be limited to the estimate.

6

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

^^ See product footnote for more information.

++ We do not currently market the product in the country or region indicated.

(a) For Abraxane in the U.S., based on settlements reached we anticipate generic entry on or after March 31, 2022. In the EU, generics have entered the market. For Japan, the estimated minimum market exclusivity date is 2023 based on a method of use patent.

(b) For Eliquis, in the U.S., two patents listed in the FDA Orange Book, the composition of matter patent claiming apixaban specifically (expiring 2026) and a formulation patent (expiring 2031), were challenged by numerous generic companies. BMS, along with its partner Pfizer, settled with a number of these generic companies (settled generic companies) while continuing to litigate against three remaining generic companies (remaining generic companies). In August 2020, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware decided that the two challenged Eliquis patents are both valid and infringed by the remaining generic companies. The remaining generic companies appealed, and in September 2021 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit upheld the decision with respect to both patents. Under the terms of previously executed settlement agreements with the settled generic companies, the permitted date of launch for the settled generic companies under these patents is April 1, 2028, subject to additional challenges. In the EU, Sandoz Limited (“Sandoz”) and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (“Teva Limited”), respectively, filed lawsuits in the United Kingdom, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, the Republic of Ireland, and Sweden seeking revocation of the composition of matter patent and related Supplementary Protection Certificates, and trials are scheduled to begin in early 2022. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies” for more information.

(c) For Inrebic in the U.S., a PTR application is pending and, if granted, the estimated patent expiry will be 2031. In the EU, the estimated minimum market exclusivity date is based on regulatory data protection exclusivity.

(d) For Onureg in the U.S., the estimated minimum market exclusivity date of 2027 is based on seven years of orphan drug exclusivity. Formulation patents covering Onureg expire in 2030 in the U.S., and in 2029 in the EU and Japan. In the U.S., Accord Healthcare Inc. has challenged the formulation patent, which is listed in the FDA Orange Book, and litigation is ongoing. In the EU, three formulation patents (EP 2,299,984; EP 2,695,609; and EP 3,692,983) cover Onureg, and two of these patents (EP 2,299,984 and EP 2,695,609) are in pending opposition proceedings. The EPO Opposition Division recently found one of these formulation patents (EP 2,299,984) invalid, and the decision is being appealed. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies” for more information.

(e) BMS is not aware of an Orencia biosimilar on the market in the U.S., EU or Japan. Formulation and additional patents expire in 2026 and beyond.

(f) For Pomalyst in the U.S., we currently do not expect generic entry prior to the first quarter of 2026. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies” for more information. For Europe, the estimated minimum market exclusivity date is based on regulatory data protection exclusivity. For Japan, the estimated minimum market exclusivity date is 2026 based on a method of use patent.

(g) For Reblozyl in the U.S. and Europe, the estimated minimum market exclusivity date is based on regulatory data protection exclusivity. In the U.S., a PTR application on a method of treatment patent is pending and if granted, the estimated patent expiry will be 2033. In the EU, an SPC application on a method of treatment patent is pending and if granted, the estimated patent expiry will be 2034.

(h) For Revlimid, in the U.S., as part of the settlement with Natco Pharma Ltd. (“Natco”) and its partners and affiliates, Natco was granted a volume-limited license to sell generic lenalidomide in the U.S. commencing in March 2022. Certain other generic companies have been granted volume-limited licenses to sell generic lenalidomide in the U.S. beginning on confidential dates that are sometime after the March 2022 volume-limited license date provided to Natco. In addition, Natco and other generic companies have been granted licenses to sell generic lenalidomide in the U.S. without volume limitation beginning on January 31, 2026. In the EU, licenses have been granted to third parties to market generic lenalidomide products prior to expiry of our patent and supplementary protection certificate (“SPC”) rights in the UK beginning on January 18, 2022, and in various other major market European countries (e.g., France, Germany, Italy and Spain) where our SPC is in force beginning on February 18, 2022. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies” for more information.

(i) For Sprycel, in the U.S., BMS entered into settlement agreements with Apotex Inc. (“Apotex”) and certain other generic companies regarding patents covering certain polymorphic forms of dasatinib whereby the generic companies can launch their generic dasatinib aNDA products in September 2024, or earlier in certain circumstances. In the EU, the EPO’s Opposition Division upheld the validity of the patent directed to the use of dasatinib to treat CML, which expires in 2024; however, generics have already entered the market for some indications and may enter the market for all indications prior to 2024. In Japan, the composition of matter patent has been extended to 2024 for the treatment of non-imatinib-resistant CML, and there is a patent covering the monohydrate form of dasatinib that expires in 2025. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies” for more information.

(j) For Zeposia, in the U.S., a PTR application is pending and if granted, the estimated patent expiry will be 2033. In the EU, the estimated minimum market exclusivity date is based on regulatory data protection exclusivity. In the EU, an SPC application is pending and, if granted, the estimated patent expiry will be 2034.

(k) Estimated minimum market exclusivity dates for EU countries are based on France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK.

7

Research and Development

R&D is critical to our long-term competitiveness. We concentrate our R&D efforts in the following disease areas with significant unmet medical needs: oncology, including IO; hematology and cell therapy, including multiple myeloma, lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia; immunology including relapsing multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease; cardiovascular, including cardiomyopathy, heart failure and thrombotic disorders; and fibrotic disease, specifically lung (“IPF”) and liver (“NASH”). We also continue to analyze and may selectively pursue promising leads in other areas. Our R&D pipeline includes potential medicines in various modalities including small (chemically manufactured) molecules and large (protein) molecules—also known as biologics—and also millamolecules, antibody drug conjugates, cellular therapies and gene therapies. In addition to discovering and developing new molecular entities, we look for ways to expand the value of existing products through new indications and formulations that can provide additional benefits to patients.

In order for a new drug to reach the market, industry practice and government regulations in the U.S., the EU and most foreign countries provide for the determination of a drug’s effectiveness and safety through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. The clinical development of a potential new drug typically includes Phase I, Phase II and Phase III clinical studies that have been designed specifically to support an application for regulatory approval for a particular indication, assuming the studies are successful.

Phase I clinical studies involve a small number of healthy volunteers or patients suffering from the indicated disease to test for safety and proper dosing. Phase II clinical studies involve a larger patient population to investigate side effects, efficacy and optimal dosage of the drug candidate. Phase III clinical studies are conducted to confirm Phase II results in a significantly larger patient population over a longer term and to provide reliable and conclusive data regarding the safety and efficacy of a drug candidate. Although regulatory approval is typically based on the results of Phase III clinical studies, there are times when approval can be granted based on data from earlier studies.

We consider our registrational studies to be our significant R&D programs. These programs may include both investigational compounds in Phases II and III development for initial indications, or marketed products that are in development for additional indications or formulations. Substantial components of our R&D program strategy include expanding our portfolio of marketed products in hematology, immunology and IO as well as Opdivo in combination with Yervoy and other agents in both first and second-line therapy with new indications.

Drug development is time consuming, expensive and risky. The R&D process typically takes about fourteen years, with approximately two and a half years spent in Phase III, or late-stage, development. On average, only about one in 10,000 molecules discovered by pharmaceutical industry researchers proves to be both medically effective and safe enough to become an approved medicine. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and even late-stage product candidates sometimes fail to receive regulatory approval. According to the KMR Group, based on industry success rates from 2016-2020, approximately 91% of small molecules that enter Phase I development fail to achieve regulatory approval. Small molecules that enter Phase II development have a failure rate of approximately 79% while approximately 27% of Phase III or later stage small molecules fail to achieve approval. For biologics, the failure rate is approximately 89% from Phase I development, approximately 73% from Phase II development and approximately 30% from Phase III and later stage development.

Total R&D expenses include the costs of discovery research, preclinical development, early-stage and late-stage clinical development, drug formulation, post-commercialization and medical support of marketed products, proportionate allocations of enterprise-wide costs and up-front and contingent milestone payments for licensing and acquiring assets. R&D expenses were $11.4 billion in 2021, $11.1 billion in 2020 and $6.1 billion in 2019, including license and asset acquisition charges of approximately $1.0 billion, $1.0 billion and $25 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. R&D expenses in 2020 include a full year of expense resulting from the Celgene acquisition which occurred in November 2019. In addition, an $11.4 billion IPRD charge was recognized in 2020 for the MyoKardia acquisition.

We manage our R&D programs on a product portfolio basis, investing resources in each stage of R&D from early discovery through late-stage development. We continually evaluate our portfolio of R&D assets to ensure that there is an appropriate balance of early-stage and late-stage programs to support the future growth of the Company. Spending on our late-stage development programs represented approximately 40% of our annual R&D expenses in 2021. Opdivo is the only individual investigational compound or marketed product to represent 10% or more of our R&D expenses in 2021.

Our drug discovery and development work takes place across a network of state-of-the-art facilities worldwide. We have continued our investment in our existing sites and the expansion of our manufacturing capabilities. For example, we expanded our Lawrenceville, New Jersey site in 2020 and are opening a new R&D facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts (planned for 2023). In addition, in support of our continued investment in our cell therapy portfolio, we are expanding our manufacturing capabilities through the construction of new state-of-the-art cell therapy manufacturing facilities in Devens, Massachusetts and Leiden, Netherlands.

8

We supplement our internal drug discovery and development programs with acquisitions, alliances and collaborative agreements which help us bring new molecular agents, capabilities and platforms into our pipeline. We have a broad early-to-mid stage pipeline with over 50 unique compounds in clinical development. Our pipeline was built by coupling internal research and development programs with a distributed research and development model, which focused on identifying and supporting the development of disruptive and innovative therapies outside the company through a broad network of external partnerships. Management continues to emphasize leadership, innovation, productivity and quality as strategies for success in our R&D activities.

Listed below are our clinical studies and approved indications for our marketed products in the related therapeutic area as of February 4, 2022. Whether any of the listed compounds ultimately becomes a marketed product depends on the results of clinical studies, the competitive landscape of the potential product’s market, reimbursement decisions by payers and the manufacturing processes necessary to produce the potential product on a commercial scale, among other factors. There can be no assurance that we will seek regulatory approval of any of these compounds or that, if such approval is sought, it will be obtained. There is also no assurance that a compound which gets approved will be commercially successful. At this stage of development, we cannot determine all intellectual property issues or all the patent protection that may, or may not, be available for these investigational compounds.

9

HEMATOLOGY

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

10

ONCOLOGY

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

11

IMMUNOLOGY

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CARDIOVASCULAR

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

12

FIBROTIC DISEASES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NEUROSCIENCE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

COVID-19

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

13

The following are our potential registrational study readouts anticipated through 2023/2024:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Alliances

We enter into alliance arrangements with third parties for the development and commercialization of specific products or drug candidates in our therapeutic areas of focus. Alliances may be structured as co-development, co-commercialization, licensing or joint venture arrangements. These arrangements may include up-front payments; option payments to develop or commercialize a specific asset or technology; payments for various developmental, regulatory and sales-based performance milestones; royalties; cost reimbursements; profit sharing; and equity investments. Provisions in our alliance arrangements lessen our investment risk for compounds not leading to revenue generating products but reduce the profitability of marketed products due to profit sharing or royalty payments. We actively pursue such arrangements and view alliances as an important complement to our own discovery, development and commercialization activities.

Our alliance arrangements contain customary early termination provisions following material breaches, bankruptcy or product safety concerns. Such arrangements also typically provide for termination by BMS without cause. The amount of notice required for early termination generally ranges from immediately upon notice to 180 days after receipt of notice. Termination immediately upon notice is generally available where the other party files a voluntary bankruptcy petition or if a material safety issue arises with a product such that the medical risk/benefit is incompatible with the welfare of patients to continue to develop or commercialize the product. Termination with a notice period is generally available where an involuntary bankruptcy petition has been filed and has not been dismissed, a material breach by a party has occurred and not been cured or where BMS terminates without cause. Sometimes, BMS's right to terminate without cause may only be exercisable after a specified period of time has elapsed after the alliance agreement is signed. Our alliances typically do not otherwise contain provisions that provide the other party the right to terminate the alliance.

We typically do not retain any rights to another party's product or intellectual property after an alliance terminates. The loss of rights to one or more products that are marketed and sold by us pursuant to an alliance could be material to our results of operations and the loss of cash flows caused by such loss of rights could be material to our financial condition and liquidity. Alliance agreements may be structured to terminate on specific dates, upon the product's patent expiration date or without an expiry date. Profit sharing payments typically have no expiration date while royalty payments typically cease upon loss of market exclusivity, including patent expiration.

Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 3. Alliances” for further information on our most significant alliance agreements as well as other alliance agreements.

14

Marketing, Distribution and Customers

We promote the appropriate use of our products directly to healthcare professionals and organizations such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, technologists, hospitals, PBMs and MCOs. We also provide information about the appropriate use of our products to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer print, radio, television and digital advertising and promotion. In addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public about our innovative medical research and corporate mission. For a discussion of the regulation of promotion and marketing of pharmaceuticals, refer to “—Government Regulation” below.

Through our field sales and medical organizations, we explain the risks and benefits of the approved uses of our products to medical professionals. We work to gain access for our products on formularies and reimbursement plans (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products), including Medicare Part D plans, by providing information about the clinical profiles of our products. Our marketing and sales of prescription pharmaceuticals is limited to the approved uses of the particular product, but we continue to develop scientific data and other information about potential additional uses of our products and provide such information as scientific exchange at scientific congresses or we share information about our products in other appropriate ways, including the development of publications, or in response to unsolicited inquiries from doctors, other medical professionals and MCOs.

Our operations include several marketing and sales organizations. Each product marketing organization is supported by a sales force, which may be responsible for selling one or more products. We also have marketing organizations that focus on certain classes of customers such as managed care entities or certain types of marketing tools, such as digital or consumer communications. Our sales forces focus on communicating information about new approved products or uses, as well as approved uses of established products, and promotion to physicians is increasingly targeted at physician specialists who treat the patients in need of our medicines.

Our products are sold principally to wholesalers, specialty distributors, specialty pharmacies, and to a lesser extent, directly to distributors, retailers, hospitals, clinics and government agencies. Revlimid and Pomalyst are distributed in the United States primarily through contracted pharmacies under the Lenalidomide REMS and Pomalyst REMS programs, respectively. These are proprietary, mandatory risk-management distribution programs tailored specifically to provide for the safe and appropriate distribution and use of Revlimid and Pomalyst. Internationally, Revlimid and Imnovid are distributed under mandatory risk-management distribution programs tailored to meet local authorities’ specifications to provide for the product’s safe and appropriate distribution and use. These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the country and the design of the risk-management program, the product may be sold through hospitals or retail pharmacies. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 2. Revenue” for gross revenues to the three largest pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. as a percentage of our global gross revenues.

Our U.S. business has DSAs with substantially all of our direct wholesaler and distributor customers that allow us to monitor U.S. wholesaler and distributor inventory levels and requires those wholesalers and distributors to maintain inventory levels that are no more than one month of their demand. The DSAs, including those with our three largest wholesalers, expire in June 2024 subject to certain termination provisions.

Our non-U.S. businesses have significantly more direct customers. Information on available direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information varies widely. We limit our direct customer sales channel inventory reporting to where we can reliably gather and report inventory levels from our customers.

In a number of countries outside of the U.S., we contract with distributors to support certain products. The services provided by these distributors vary by market, but may include distribution and logistics; regulatory and pharmacovigilance; and/or sales, advertising or promotion.

Competition

The markets in which we compete are generally broad based and highly competitive. We compete with other worldwide research-based drug companies, many smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus and generic drug manufacturers. Important competitive factors include product efficacy, safety and ease of use, price and demonstrated cost-effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, product labeling, customer service and R&D of new products and processes. Sales of our products can be impacted by new studies that indicate a competitor’s product is safer or more effective for treating a disease or particular form of disease than one of our products. Our revenues also can be impacted by additional labeling requirements relating to safety or convenience that may be imposed on products by the FDA or by similar regulatory agencies in different countries. If competitors introduce new products and processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price reductions, decreased volume of sales or both.

15

Advancements in treating cancer with IO therapies continue to evolve at a rapid pace. Our IO products, particularly Opdivo, operate in a highly competitive marketplace. In addition to competing for market share with other IO products in approved indications such as lung cancer and melanoma, we face increased competition from existing competing IO products that receive FDA approval for additional indications and for new IO agents that receive FDA approval and enter the market. Furthermore, as therapies combining different IO products or IO products with existing chemotherapy or targeted therapy treatments are investigated for potential expanded approvals, we anticipate that our IO products will continue to experience intense competition.

Another competitive challenge we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. In the U.S. and the EU, the regulatory approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical studies to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy of the innovator product. As a result, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers typically invest far less in R&D than research-based pharmaceutical companies and therefore can price their products significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a branded product loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product. Upon the expiration or loss of market exclusivity on a product, we can lose the major portion of that product's revenue in a very short period of time.

After the expiration of exclusivity, the rate of revenue decline of a product varies by country. In general, the decline in the U.S. market is more rapid than in most other developed countries, though we have observed rapid declines in a number of EU countries as well. Also, the declines in developed countries tend to be more rapid than in developing countries. The rate of revenue decline after the expiration of exclusivity has also historically been influenced by product characteristics. For example, drugs that are used in a large patient population (e.g., those prescribed by key primary care physicians) tend to experience more rapid declines than drugs in specialized areas of medicine (e.g., oncology). Drugs that are more complex to manufacture (e.g., sterile injectable products) usually experience a slower decline than those that are simpler to manufacture.

In certain countries outside the U.S., patent protection is weak or nonexistent and we must compete with generic versions shortly after we launch our innovative products. In addition, generic pharmaceutical companies may introduce a generic product before exclusivity has expired, and before the resolution of any related patent litigation. For more information about market exclusivity, refer to “—Products, Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity.”

We believe our long-term competitive position depends upon our success in discovering and developing innovative, cost-effective products that serve unmet medical needs, along with our ability to manufacture products efficiently and to market them effectively in a highly competitive environment.

Pricing, Price Constraints and Market Access

Our medicines are priced based on a number of factors, including the value of scientific innovation for patients and society in the context of overall health care spend, economic factors impacting health care systems’ ability to provide appropriate and sustainable access and the necessity to sustain our investment in innovation platforms to address unmet medical needs. Central to price is the clinical value that this innovation brings to the market, the current landscape of alternative treatment options and the goals of ensuring appropriate patient access to this innovation and sustaining investment in creative platforms. We continue to explore new pricing approaches to ensure that patients have access to our medicines. Enhancing patient access to medicines is a priority for us. We are focused on: offering creative tiered pricing, reimbursement support and patient assistance programs to optimize access while protecting innovation; advocating for sustainable healthcare policies and infrastructure, leveraging advocacy/payer’s input and utilizing partnerships as appropriate; and improving access to care and supportive services for vulnerable patients through partnerships and demonstration projects. 

An important factor on which the pricing of our medicines depends is government regulation. We have been subject to increasing international and domestic efforts by various governments to implement or strengthen measures to regulate pharmaceutical market access and product pricing and payment. In the U.S., we are required to provide discounts on purchases of pharmaceutical products under various federal and state healthcare programs. Federal government officials and legislators continue to face intense pressure from the public to manage the perceived high cost of pharmaceuticals and have responded by pursuing legislation and rules that they claim would further reduce the cost of drugs for the federal government and other stakeholders. We are also now required to comply with recently enacted state laws that seek additional transparency into the cost of prescription drugs. We are monitoring efforts by states to seek additional rebates and limit state spending on drugs in light of budget pressures. These international, federal and state legislative and regulatory developments could create new constraints on our ability to set prices and/or impact our market access in certain areas. For further discussion on the pricing pressure and its risk, refer to “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors—Product, Industry and Operational Risks—Increased pricing pressure and other restrictions in the U.S. and abroad continue to negatively affect our revenues and profit margins.”

16

The growth and consolidation of MCOs and PBMs in the U.S., such as Optum (UHC), CVS Health (CVS) and Express Scripts (ESI), has also been a major factor in the healthcare marketplace. As MCOs and PBMs have been consolidating into fewer, larger entities, they have also been enhancing their purchasing strength and importance to us. Over half of the U.S. population now participates in some version of managed care. MCOs can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health-maintenance organizations, Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations. PBMs are third parties that support formulary management and contracting for MCOs.

To successfully compete for formulary position with MCOs and PBMs, we must often demonstrate that our products offer not only medical benefits but also cost advantages as compared with other forms of care. Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in patient populations. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete aggressively to have their products included. Most new products that we introduce compete with other products already on the market or products that are later developed by competitors. Where possible, companies compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use or fewer side effects. A lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. Products that demonstrate fewer therapeutic advantages must compete for inclusion based primarily on price. We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on MCO or PBM formularies.

In many markets outside the U.S., we operate in an environment of government-mandated, cost-containment programs. In these markets, a significant portion of funding for healthcare services and the determination of pricing and reimbursement for pharmaceutical products are subject to either direct government control at the point of care or governments having significant power as large single payers. As a result, our products may face restricted access by both public and private payers and may be subject to assessments of comparative value and effectiveness against existing standard of care. Several governments have placed restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic drugs and/or enacted across-the-board price cuts or rebate schemes as methods of cost control. In most EU countries, for example, the government regulates pricing of a new product at launch often through direct price controls, international price comparisons, controlling profits and/or reference pricing. In other EU markets, such as Germany, the government does not set pricing restrictions at launch, but pricing freedom is subsequently limited. Companies may also face significant delays in market access for new products and more than a year can elapse before new medicines become available to patients in the market. Additionally, member states of the EU have regularly imposed new or additional cost containment measures for pharmaceuticals such as volume discounts, cost caps, cost sharing for increases in excess of prior year costs for individual products or aggregated market level spending, clawbacks and free products for a portion of the expected therapy period. The existence of price differentials within the EU due to the different national pricing and reimbursement laws leads to potential significant parallel trade flows.

Government Regulation

The pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive global regulations by regional, country, state and local agencies. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, other Federal statutes and regulations, various state statutes and regulations (including newly enacted state laws regulating drug price transparency, rebates and drug spending), and laws and regulations of foreign governments govern to varying degrees the testing, approval, production, labeling, distribution, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information and promotion of our products. The lengthy process of laboratory and clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing, development and regulatory review necessary for required governmental approvals is extremely costly and can significantly delay product introductions in a given market. Promotion, marketing, manufacturing and distribution of pharmaceutical products are extensively regulated in all major world markets. In addition, our operations are subject to complex Federal, state, local and foreign environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations. We anticipate that the laws and regulations affecting the manufacture and sale of current products and the introduction of new products will continue to require substantial scientific and technical effort, time and expense as well as significant capital investments.

17

The FDA is of particular importance in the U.S. It has jurisdiction over virtually all of our activities and imposes requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of our products. In many cases, FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the U.S. The regulatory review process is a resource intensive undertaking for both the FDA and the pharmaceutical manufacturer. Improvements in the efficiency of this process can have significant impact on bringing new therapies to patients more quickly. The FDA can employ several tools to facilitate the development of certain drugs or expedite certain applications, including fast track designation, Breakthrough Therapy designation, priority review, accelerated approval, incentives for orphan drugs developed for rare diseases and others. For example, in recent years the FDA Oncology Center of Excellence (“OCE”) established two projects to test novel approaches for more efficient regulatory review of oncology drugs: the Real-Time Oncology Review pilot program and the Assessment Aid. Under the Assessment Aid pilot program, the FDA approved Opdivo+Yervoy given with two cycles of platinum-doublet chemotherapy on May 26, 2020 for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic or recurrent NSCLC with no EGFR or anaplastic lymphoma kinase genomic tumor aberrations. This approval was achieved more than two months before the priority review PDUFA date of August 6, 2020. To develop a framework for concurrent review of supplemental oncology applications among multiple approval authorities, the OCE initiated Project Orbis. Under Project Orbis, earlier approvals from the Australian, Therapeutic Goods Administration (“TGA”), Health Canada and Singapore Health Sciences Authority were received on the combination of Opdivo+Yervoy given with two cycles of platinum-doublet chemotherapy in 2020.

The FDA mandates that drugs be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with cGMP established by the FDA. In complying with cGMP regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in production, recordkeeping and quality control to ensure that products meet applicable specifications and other requirements to ensure product safety and efficacy. The FDA periodically inspects our drug manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable cGMP requirements. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements subjects us to possible legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product or voluntary recall of a product. Adverse events with the use of products must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restrictions through labeling changes or product removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy occur following approval.

The Federal government has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of pharmaceutical manufacturers, including authority to withdraw or delay product approvals, to commence actions to seize and prohibit the sale of unapproved or non-complying products, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance with cGMPs, and to impose or seek injunctions, voluntary recalls, civil, monetary and criminal penalties. Such a restriction or prohibition on sales or withdrawal of approval of products marketed by us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.

Marketing authorization for our products is subject to revocation by the applicable governmental agencies. In addition, modifications or enhancements of approved products or changes in manufacturing locations are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals, which may or may not be received and may be subject to a lengthy application process.

The distribution of pharmaceutical products is subject to the PDMA as part of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which regulates such activities at both the Federal and state level. Under the PDMA and its implementing regulations, states are permitted to require registration of manufacturers and distributors that provide pharmaceuticals even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. States are also permitted to adopt regulations limiting the distribution of product samples to licensed practitioners. The PDMA also imposes extensive licensing, personnel recordkeeping, packaging, quantity, labeling, product handling and facility storage and security requirements intended to prevent the sale of pharmaceutical product samples or other product diversions.

The FDA Amendments Act of 2007 imposed additional obligations on pharmaceutical companies and delegated more enforcement authority to the FDA in the area of drug safety. Key elements of this legislation give the FDA authority to (i) require that companies conduct post-marketing safety studies of drugs, (ii) impose certain safety related drug labeling changes, (iii) mandate risk mitigation measures such as the education of healthcare providers and the restricted distribution of medicines, (iv) require companies to publicly disclose data from clinical studies and (v) pre-review television advertisements.

18

The marketing practices of all U.S. pharmaceutical manufacturers are subject to Federal and state healthcare laws that are used to protect the integrity of government healthcare programs. The Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) oversees compliance with applicable Federal laws, in connection with the payment for products by government funded programs, primarily Medicaid and Medicare. These laws include the Federal anti-kickback statute, which criminalizes knowingly offering something of value to induce the recommendation, order or purchase of products or services reimbursed under a government healthcare program. The OIG has issued a series of guidances to segments of the healthcare industry, including the 2003 Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, which includes a recommendation that pharmaceutical manufacturers, at a minimum, adhere to the PhRMA Code, a voluntary industry code of marketing practices. We subscribe to the PhRMA Code and have implemented a compliance program to address the requirements set forth in the guidance and our compliance with the healthcare laws. Failure to comply with these healthcare laws could subject us to administrative and legal proceedings, including actions by Federal and state government agencies. Such actions could result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and injunctive remedies; the impact of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.

We are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal and state regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services in the U.S. We are also licensed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration to procure and produce controlled substances. We are, therefore, subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these organizations. Such actions may result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies.

The U.S. healthcare industry is subject to various government-imposed regulations authorizing prices or price controls that have and will continue to have an impact on our total revenues. We participate in state government Medicaid programs, as well as certain other qualifying Federal and state government programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating state and local government entities. We also participate in federal government programs that specify discounts to certain federal government entities; the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. These entities receive minimum discounts based off a defined “non-federal average manufacturer price” for purchases. 

As a result of HR 3590 (Affordable Care Act) and the reconciliation bill containing a package of changes to the healthcare bill, we have and will continue to experience additional financial costs and certain other changes to our business. For example, we are required to provide a 70% discount on our brand-name drugs to patients who fall within the Medicare Part D coverage gap, also referred to as the “donut hole”, and pay an annual non-tax-deductible fee to the federal government based on an allocation of our market share of branded drug sales to certain government programs including Medicare, Medicaid, Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense and TRICARE. The amount of the annual fee imposed on pharmaceutical manufacturers as a whole is $2.8 billion for 2019 and thereafter.

Our activities outside the U.S. are also subject to regulatory requirements governing the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products. These regulatory requirements vary from country to country. Whether or not FDA or EC approval has been obtained for a product, approval of the product by comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside of the U.S. or the EU, as the case may be, must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval process may be more or less rigorous from country to country and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the U.S. Approval in one country does not assure that a product will be approved in another country.

For further discussion of these rebates and programs, refer to “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—GTN Adjustments” and “—Critical Accounting Policies.”

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

In general, we purchase our raw materials, components and supplies required for the manufacturing of our products in the open market. For some products, we purchase our raw materials, components and supplies from one source (the only source available to us) or a single source (the only approved source among many available to us), thereby requiring us to obtain such raw materials and supplies from that particular source. We attempt, if possible, to mitigate our potential risk associated with our raw materials, components and supplies through inventory management and alternative sourcing strategies. For further discussion of sourcing, refer to “—Manufacturing and Quality Assurance” below and discussions of particular products.

19

Manufacturing and Quality Assurance

We operate and manage a manufacturing network, consisting of internal and external resources, in a manner that permits us to improve efficiency while maintaining flexibility to reallocate manufacturing capacity. Pharmaceutical manufacturing processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely from product to product. Given that shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be a lengthy process requiring significant capital and other expenditures as well as regulatory approvals, we manage and operate a flexible manufacturing network that minimizes unnecessary product transfers and inefficient uses of manufacturing capacity. For further discussion of the regulatory impact on our manufacturing, refer to “—Government Regulation” above.

Our significant biologics, cell therapy and pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities are located in the U.S., Puerto Rico, Ireland and Switzerland and require significant ongoing capital investment for both maintenance and compliance with increasing regulatory requirements. For example, the FDA approved our large scale multi-product bulk biologics manufacturing facility in Devens, Massachusetts in May 2012 and we continue to make capital investments in this facility. In addition, we expect to continue modification of our existing manufacturing network to meet complex processing standards that are required for our growing portfolio, particularly biologics and cell therapy. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. For example, we completed our new large-scale biologics manufacturing facility in Cruiserath, Ireland, which was approved by the FDA in December 2019 and by the EU in January 2020. For our cell therapy product candidates and marketed products, including Breyanzi and Abecma, we have invested in our own manufacturing network, including facilities in Bothell, Washington; Summit, New Jersey; and Devens, Massachusetts, as well as third-party manufacturers. Beyond regulatory requirements, many of our products involve technically sophisticated manufacturing processes or require specialized raw materials. For example, we manufacture for clinical and commercial use several sterile products, biologic products and CAR T products, all of which are particularly complex and involve highly specialized manufacturing technologies. As a result, even slight deviations at any point in their production process may lead to production failures or recalls.

In addition to our own manufacturing sites, we rely on third parties to manufacture or supply us with all or a portion of the active product ingredient or drug substance necessary for us to manufacture various products, such as Opdivo, Eliquis, Sprycel, Yervoy, Reblozyl, Inrebic, Abraxane, and Pomalyst/Imnovid. We are also expanding our use of third-party manufacturers for drug product and finished goods manufacturing and we continue to shift towards using third-party manufacturers for supply of our mature and other brands. With respect to Revlimid and Thalomid®, we own and operate a manufacturing facility in Zofingen, Switzerland, in which we produce the active product ingredient for Revlimid and Thalomid and we contract with a third-party manufacturer to provide the back-up active product ingredient for Revlimid and Thalomid. To maintain a stable supply of these products, we take a variety of actions including inventory management and maintenance of additional quantities of materials, when possible, that are designed to provide for a reasonable level of these ingredients to be held by the third-party supplier, us or both, so that our manufacturing operations are not interrupted. Certain supply arrangements extend over multiple years with committed amounts using expected near or long-term demand requirements that are subject to change. As an additional protection, in some cases, we take steps to maintain an approved back-up source where available and when needed. For example, we have the capability to manufacture Opdivo internally and have arrangements with third-party manufacturers to meet demand. 

In connection with acquisitions, divestitures, licensing and collaboration arrangements or distribution agreements for certain of our products, or in certain other circumstances, we have entered into agreements under which we have agreed to supply our products to third parties and intend to continue to enter into such arrangements or agreements in the future. In addition to liabilities that could arise from our failure to supply such products under the agreements, these arrangements or agreements could require us to invest in facilities for the manufacturing of non-strategic products, in the case of a divestiture or distribution arrangement, resulting in additional regulatory filings and obligations or causing an interruption in the manufacturing of our own strategic products.

Our success depends in great measure upon customer confidence in the quality of our products and in the integrity of the data that support their safety and effectiveness. Product quality arises from a total commitment to quality in all parts of our operations, including research and development, purchasing, facilities maintenance and planning, manufacturing, warehousing, logistics and distribution. We maintain records to demonstrate the quality and integrity of data, technical information and production processes.

Control of production processes involves established specifications and standards for raw materials, components, ingredients, equipment and facilities, manufacturing methods and operations, packaging materials and labeling. We perform tests at various stages of production processes, on the raw materials, drug substance and the final product and on product samples held on stability to ensure that the product meets regulatory requirements and conforms to our standards. These tests may involve chemical and physical analyses, microbiological testing or a combination of these along with other analyses. Quality control testing is provided by business unit/site and third-party laboratories. Quality assurance groups routinely monitor manufacturing procedures and systems used by us, our subsidiaries and third-party suppliers to ensure quality and compliance requirements are met.

20

Environmental Regulation

Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water; the use, management and disposal of hazardous, radioactive and biological materials and wastes; and the cleanup of contamination. Pollution controls and permits are required for many of our operations, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal or revocation by the issuing authorities.

Our environment, occupational health, safety and sustainability group monitors our operations around the world, providing us with an overview of regulatory requirements and overseeing the implementation of our standards for compliance. We also incur operating and capital costs for such matters on an ongoing basis, which were not material for 2021, 2020 and 2019. In addition, we invested in projects that reduce resource use of energy and water. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements and the permits required for our operations, we nevertheless could incur additional costs, including civil or criminal fines or penalties, clean-up costs or third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, for violations or liabilities under these laws.

Many of our current and former facilities have been in operation for many years, and over time, we and other operators of those facilities have generated, used, stored or disposed of substances or wastes that are considered hazardous under Federal, state and/or foreign environmental laws, including CERCLA. As a result, the soil and groundwater at or under certain of these facilities is or may be contaminated, and we may be required to make significant expenditures to investigate, control and remediate such contamination, and in some cases to provide compensation and/or restoration for damages to natural resources. Currently, we are involved in investigation and remediation at 16 current or former facilities. We have also been identified as a PRP under applicable laws for environmental conditions at approximately 19 former waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties at which investigation and/or remediation activities are ongoing.

We may face liability under CERCLA and other Federal, state and foreign laws for the entire cost of investigation or remediation of contaminated sites, or for natural resource damages, regardless of fault or ownership at the time of the disposal or release. In addition, at certain sites we bear remediation responsibility pursuant to contractual obligations. Generally, at third-party operator sites involving multiple PRPs, liability has been or is expected to be apportioned based on the nature and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable PRPs. For additional information about these matters, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”

Human Capital Management and Resources

We believe that our employees around the world embody our mission to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. Together, their unyielding focus on patients defines our culture.

Demographics: As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 32,200 employees in 45 countries. Approximately 58% of our employees are located in the U.S. (excluding Puerto Rico) and 42% are located outside of the U.S. We supplement our employee population with independent contractors, contingent workers and temporary workforce support as needed. The average tenure of our employees is approximately eight years.

People Strategy: Our people are the heart and soul of our globally unified culture. Our People Strategy is designed to inspire individuals and encourage teams to work together for our patients and our communities. We invest in our workforce through the extensive programs, policies and initiatives described below to accelerate personal development and collaboration in service to our patients and we believe that these investments are a competitive advantage in recruiting our future workforce. To accelerate innovation, we strive to match the diverse knowledge, skills and capabilities of our talented employee community to our business needs. The following programs, policies and initiatives encompass some of the objectives and measures that we continue to focus on as part of our People Strategy

•Diversity, Equity and Inclusion: Through a culture of inclusion, we foster a diverse mosaic of people that seek to mirror our patients and communities worldwide and create an agile and responsive work environment. The diversity of our people and their unique perspectives and experiences help us achieve our patient-focused mission and business objectives. We believe that our inclusive culture encourages all to pursue innovative ideas, develop leadership capabilities and gain valuable experiences to shape exciting careers. We have implemented measures that provide accountability for continually increasing our diversity. Our commitment to attracting diverse talent includes training our workforce in diversity sourcing strategies and partnering with external local and national organizations that develop and supply diverse talent, such as the United Negro College Fund, Inc., Prospanica, Ascend, Inc. and Women of Color in Pharma.

21

•The ongoing investment in our People and Business Resource Groups (PBRGs) represent one key lever that we use to support our acquisition, development and retention of diverse talent and the business objectives and career advancement and development needs of our employees. We maintain PBRG chapters worldwide where members network, learn skills, participate in learning development events and contribute to our business objectives in a tangible way. Our PBRGs are sponsored by members of our leadership team and are each led by a full-time dedicated leader who reports directly to a member of our leadership team. Our PBRGs include the Black Organization for Leadership and Development, the Bristol Myers Squibb Network of Women, the Cultivating Leadership and Innovation for Millennials and Beyond, the Disability Advancement Workplace Network, the PRIDE Alliance, the Organization for Latino Achievement, the Pan Asian Network and the Veterans Community Network.

•In August 2020, BMS and the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation each announced that they would independently invest $150 million over the next five years as part of a series of commitments around health equity, diversity and inclusion currently focused on five key priorities: 1) addressing health disparities, 2) increasing clinical trial diversity, 3) expanding our supplier diversity program, 4) expanding our U.S. & Puerto Rico Employee Giving Program and 5) increasing our workforce diversity at the executive levels. In October 2021, the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation, together with its partners, National Medical Fellowships and the American Association for Cancer Research, announced the first group of 52 physicians selected for its Diversity in Clinical Trials Career Development Program. The 52 early-stage investigators were the first of 250 community-oriented clinical trialists who will be trained through the program by 2027.

•In 2020, we announced that we intend to expand the diversity of our workforce and leadership by doubling Black/African American and Hispanic/Latino representation at our executive levels in the U.S. by the end of 2022. Increasing the representation of women also remains an area of focus for management as we are committed to achieving gender parity at the executive level globally by the end of 2022. We have already achieved gender parity for the global BMS employee population.

•Career Growth and Development: We offer a broad range of professional training and education for the career advancement and leadership development of our employees. These programs are designed to help our employees find their purpose, pursue their passions and achieve their aspirations and accelerate business performance through stimulating work assignments, structured learning opportunities, PBRG sponsored programs and diverse work experiences. Employees have access to our expansive library of resources covering a wide range of special interest topics in multiple languages through a variety of top learning and development resources. In 2021, over 7 million learning activities were completed by our employees, consultants and partners. We are committed to cultivating the growth of our managers and senior leaders through virtual and in-classroom learning for new and experienced managers and senior leaders. Tuition reimbursement is available globally to eligible employees who, through their own initiation and desire for development, participate in accredited educational programs. Employees are encouraged to take on stretch assignments that maximize their learning experience.

•Employee Engagement: We also routinely conduct confidential employee engagement surveys of our global workforce, which provide feedback on employee satisfaction and engagement and cover a variety of topics such as company culture and values, execution of our strategy, diversity and inclusion and individual development, among others. Survey results are reviewed by our executive officers and board of directors, who analyze areas of progress or opportunity both at a company level as well as at a function level. Individual managers use survey results to implement actions and activities intended to increase the well-being of our employees. We believe that our employee engagement initiatives, competitive pay and benefit programs and career growth and development opportunities help increase employee satisfaction and tenure and reduce voluntary turnover.

•Employee Health: We are committed to protecting our workforce, communities and patients, and ensuring the continued supply of life-saving medicines. Our focus is directed towards ensuring that all of our employees, as well as temporary contractors and visitors to our sites, can work safely. We have prioritized the health and safety of our employees during the COVID-19 pandemic, while continuing the supply of medicines to our patients and driving strong business performance. As a science-based company, we have a social responsibility to help reduce the spread of the pandemic. Vaccinations are required for generally all of our employees in the U.S. and Puerto Rico subject to any local regulation which limit or restrict vaccine mandates, and we are encouraged that as of January 5, 2022 approximately 99% of our employees in these regions are vaccinated against COVID-19. Although local regulations and conditions in other ex-U.S. jurisdictions may limit or restrict vaccine mandates, we are committed to implementing similar requirements in other markets wherever possible. Requests for medical or religious accommodations are also considered on an individual basis. 

•Total Rewards: We provide highly competitive benefits, compensation and work life offerings that reflect a total rewards strategy to enable and empower the energy and talent of our workforce to deliver on our business strategy and transform 

22

patients' lives through science. Through our competitive pay and benefit program, we aim to attract, retain and incentivize diverse talented employees and executives capable of thriving and leading our business in a highly complex and competitive environment. Our benefits plans and programs (which necessarily vary by country) include in the U.S. choices for health coverage, including medical, pharmacy, dental, vision, pretax savings and spending accounts; financial protections through life insurance, supplemental health insurance and personal coverage and protections; and financial savings and well-being through a highly competitive 401(k) savings plan and financial well-being services. Similarly, our U.S. work life offerings encourage growth, well-being and recognition through tuition reimbursement, our Living Life Better well-being platform, our Bravo global recognition program (which encourages team, peer to peer and individual recognition aligned to our values), onsite fitness centers in select locations and employee assistance programs. We also provide support for welcoming and nurturing family members through paid parental leave to care for a new child, bridge back parent leave to ease transition of new parents back into work, adoption/surrogacy reimbursement, fertility/infertility benefits, support for traveling mothers and paid family care leave. We assist employees in managing life during the workday and beyond through child, elder and pet care resources, commuter accounts and paid sick time; and provide our employees with opportunities to recharge and give back to our communities through vacation, holidays and annual paid volunteer days, paid bereavement leave, paid military leave and paid military family care leave. In addition, we offer market, competitive-base salaries as part of our overall total rewards package - annual incentives that recognize and reward company performance as well as individual results and long-term equity incentives that spurs employees’ focus on long-term value creation. With respect to executives, a substantial proportion of their pay is variable, at-risk based on our financial and operational results and delivered in the form of equity, and this supports the alignment of our executive compensation plan with the creation of long-term value for our shareholders. We have also used targeted equity-based grants with vesting conditions to facilitate retention of critical personnel.

Refer to "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Economic and Market Factors—COVID-19" for information on our human capital management actions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 

Foreign Operations

We have significant operations outside the U.S. They are conducted both through our subsidiaries and through distributors.

International operations are subject to certain risks, which are inherent in conducting business abroad, including, but not limited to, currency fluctuations, possible nationalization or expropriation, price and exchange controls, counterfeit products, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises and other restrictive governmental actions. Our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws on pricing or reimbursement for use of products.

Bristol Myers Squibb Website

Our internet website address is www.bms.com. On our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). These documents are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

Information relating to corporate governance at Bristol Myers Squibb, including our Principles of Integrity, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors (collectively, the “Codes”), Corporate Governance Guidelines, and information concerning our Executive Committee, Board of Directors, including Board Committees and Committee charters, and transactions in Bristol Myers Squibb securities by directors and executive officers, is available on our website under the “About Us—Our Company,” “—Leadership” and “Investors” captions and in print to any stockholder upon request. Any waivers to the Codes by directors or executive officers and any material amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers will be posted promptly on our website. Information relating to stockholder services, including our Dividend Reinvestment Plan and direct deposit of dividends, is available on our website under the “Investors—Shareholder Services” caption. In addition, information about our sustainability programs is available on our website under the “About Us—Sustainability” caption. The foregoing information regarding our website and its content is for your convenience only. The information contained in or connected to our website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference in this 2021 Form 10-K or filed with the SEC.

We incorporate by reference certain information from parts of our definitive proxy statement for our 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (“2022 Proxy Statement”). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our 2022 Proxy Statement will be available on our website under the “Investors—SEC Filings” caption within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year.

23

Item 1A.RISK FACTORS.