Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Our MD&A within this Form 10-K generally discusses fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021. Fiscal 2020 items and discussions of year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 (the "Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K").

Important Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This report (including information incorporated by reference) includes forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. Many forward-looking statements appear in MD&A and Risk Factors, but there are others throughout this report, which may be identified by words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “project,” “continue,” “likely,” and similar expressions, and include statements reflecting future results or guidance, statements of outlook and expense accruals. These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in “Risk Factors” in this report and in Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 10-K included in this report. Forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this document. Except to the extent required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website (www.cardinalhealth.com), under the “Investor Relations — Financial Reporting — SEC Filings” caption, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) where you can search for annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding us and other public companies.

 2Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K

MD&AAbout Cardinal Health

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

About Cardinal Health

Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation formed in 1979, is a globally integrated healthcare services and products company providing customized solutions for hospitals, healthcare systems, pharmacies, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories, physician offices and patients in the home. We provide pharmaceuticals and medical products and cost-effective solutions that enhance supply chain efficiency. We connect patients, providers, payers, pharmacists and manufacturers for integrated care coordination and better patient management. We manage our business and report our financial results in two segments: Pharmaceutical and Medical.

Pharmaceutical Segment

Our Pharmaceutical segment distributes branded and generic pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products in the United States. This segment also provides services to pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers for specialty pharmaceutical products; operates nuclear pharmacies and radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; provides pharmacy management services to hospitals, as well as medication therapy management and patient outcomes services to hospitals, other healthcare providers and payers; and repackages generic pharmaceuticals and over-the-counter healthcare products. 

Medical Segment

Our Medical segment manufactures, sources and distributes Cardinal Health branded medical, surgical and laboratory products, which are sold in the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia and other markets. In addition to distributing Cardinal Health branded products, this segment also distributes a broad range of medical, surgical and laboratory products known as national brand products and provides supply chain services and solutions to hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories and other healthcare providers in the United States and Canada. This segment also distributes medical products to patients' homes in the United States through our Cardinal Health at-Home Solutions division.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K3

MD&AOverview

Consolidated Results

Fiscal 2022 Overview

Revenue

Revenue for fiscal 2022 was $181.4 billion, a 12 percent increase from the prior year, primarily due to sales growth from pharmaceutical distribution and specialty pharmaceutical customers, which largely consisted of branded pharmaceutical sales to existing and net new customers.

GAAP and Non-GAAP Operating Earnings/(Loss)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The sum of the components and certain computations may reflect rounding adjustments.

We had a GAAP operating loss of $596 million during fiscal 2022 due to $2.1 billion pre-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charges related to the Medical segment. See "Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates" section of this MD&A and Note 4 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional detail. During fiscal 2021, we recognized pre-tax charges of $1.17 billion for the estimated liability associated with lawsuits and claims brought against us by states and political subdivisions relating to the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications. See further description of opioid lawsuits in the Significant Developments in Fiscal 2022 and Trends section in this MD&A and Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." 

Non-GAAP operating earnings during fiscal 2022 decreased 12 percent primarily due to the decrease in Medical segment profit, largely resulting from net inflationary impacts (which primarily related to increased transportation and commodities costs, partially offset by certain price increases) and the adverse impact of global supply chain constraints.

GAAP and Non-GAAP Diluted EPS 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The sum of the components and certain computations may reflect rounding adjustments.

(1)Diluted earnings/(loss) per share attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc. ("diluted EPS" or "diluted loss per share").

(2)The reconciling items are presented within this table net of tax. See quantification of tax effect of each reconciling item in our GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations in the section titled "Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures." 

(3)For fiscal 2022, GAAP diluted loss per share attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc. and the EPS impact from the GAAP to non-GAAP per share reconciling items are calculated using a weighted average of 279 million common shares, which excludes potentially dilutive securities from the denominator due to their anti-dilutive effects resulting from our GAAP net loss for the period. Fiscal 2022 non-GAAP diluted EPS is calculated using a weighted average of 280 million common shares, which includes potentially dilutive shares.

(4)Impairments and (gain)/loss on disposals of assets, net includes pre-tax goodwill impairment charges of $2.1 billion related to the Medical segment recorded during fiscal 2022. The net tax benefit related to these charges was $150 million.

 4Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K

MD&AOverview

(5)Litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, includes a tax benefit recorded during fiscal 2021 related to a net operating loss carryback. Our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary recorded a self-insurance pre-tax loss in its fiscal 2020 statutory financial statements primarily related to opioid litigation. This self-insurance pre-tax loss, which did not impact our pre-tax consolidated results, was deducted on our fiscal 2020 consolidated federal income tax return and contributed to a significant net operating loss for tax purposes. The net operating loss was carried back and adjusted our taxable income for fiscal 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 as permitted under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (“CARES”) Act. The total benefit from the net operating loss carryback was $424 million; however, for purposes of Non-GAAP financial measures, we allocated $389 million of the benefit to litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, which is excluded from non-GAAP measures, based on the relative amount of the self-insurance pre-tax loss related to opioid litigation claims versus separate tax adjustments. The tax benefit allocated to the separate tax adjustments of $35 million is included in non-GAAP measures.

During fiscal 2022, GAAP diluted EPS was adversely impacted by the goodwill impairment charges related to the Medical segment, which had a $(6.94) per share after-tax impact. See "Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates" section of this MD&A, and Note 4 and Note 8 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional detail.

During fiscal 2021, GAAP diluted EPS was positively impacted by $1.44 per share due to a tax benefit from the net operating loss carryback primarily related to a self-insurance pre-tax loss, as further described in Note 8 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." The charges we recognized in fiscal 2021 for the estimated liability associated with lawsuits and claims brought against us by states and political subdivisions relating to the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications had a $(3.21) per share after-tax impact on GAAP diluted EPS. 

During fiscal 2022, non-GAAP diluted EPS decreased 9 percent to $5.06 due to factors impacting non-GAAP operating earnings, partially offset by a lower share count as a result of share repurchases.

Cash and Equivalents

Our cash and equivalents balance was $4.7 billion at June 30, 2022 compared to $3.4 billion at June 30, 2021. The increase in cash during fiscal 2022 was due to net cash provided by operating activities of $3.1 billion. Net cash provided by operating activities includes a refund of $966 million for the tax benefit from the net operating loss carryback related to a self-insurance pre-tax loss, and reflects the impact of $417 million of payments related to the settlement agreement (the "Settlement Agreement") to settle the vast majority of the opioid lawsuits filed by states and local governmental entities, payments under the separate New York, Ohio and Rhode Island settlements, as well as certain payments under the Cherokee Nation settlement. Fiscal 2022 operating cash flow was also impacted by favorable timing of net working capital. 

We also received proceeds of $923 million, net of cash transferred, from the divestiture of the Cordis business, and we deployed $1.0 billion for share repurchases, $885 million for debt repayments, $559 million for dividends and $387 million for capital expenditures. 

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K5

MD&AOverview

Significant Developments in Fiscal 2022 and Trends

Opioid Lawsuits Developments

National Settlement

Beginning in fiscal year 2017, state attorneys general, counties and municipalities began filing lawsuits related to the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications against pharmaceutical wholesalers, including us, and other participants in the pharmaceutical supply chain. By fiscal year 2022, Cardinal Health was a defendant in approximately 2,775 lawsuits brought by state attorneys general and counties, municipalities and other political subdivisions. In July 2021, we and two other national distributors (collectively, the “Distributors”) announced a proposed settlement with a group of state attorneys general intended to resolve the vast majority of these lawsuits (the "National Settlement") as well as a proposed settlement agreement (the "Settlement Agreement") containing, among other things, a sign-on process to allow states and political subdivisions to participate in the National Settlement.

In February 2022, the Distributors announced that each company had determined that a sufficient number of states and political subdivisions had agreed to participate in the National Settlement to proceed to effectiveness of that settlement. The Settlement Agreement became effective on April 2, 2022. 

Parties to the National Settlement include 46 out of 49 eligible states as well as the District of Columbia and all eligible territories. As of August 9, 2022, over 99 percent of eligible political subdivisions (as calculated by population under the Settlement Agreement) that had brought opioid-related suits against the companies have joined the settlement or otherwise had their claims addressed by state legislation. 

The Settlement Agreement includes a cash component, pursuant to which we will pay up to approximately $6.0 billion, the majority of which is expected to be paid over 18 years. The exact payment amount will depend on several factors, including the extent to which states take action to foreclose opioid lawsuits by political subdivisions (e.g., by passing laws barring or limiting opioid lawsuits by political subdivisions) and the extent to which additional political subdivisions in participating states file opioid lawsuits against us. 

The Settlement Agreement also includes injunctive relief terms related to distributors’ controlled substance anti-diversion programs, including with respect to: (1) governance; (2) independence and training of the personnel operating controlled substances monitoring programs; (3) due diligence for new and existing customers; (4) ordering limits for certain products; and (5) suspicious order monitoring. A monitor will oversee compliance with these provisions for a period of five years. In addition, the Distributors will engage a third-party vendor to act as a clearinghouse for data aggregation and reporting, which the Distributors will fund for ten years. 

During fiscal 2022, we made our first annual payment under the Settlement Agreement. Prior to the effective date of the Settlement Agreement, the Distributors had entered into separate settlement agreements with each of the states of Florida, New York, Ohio and Rhode Island. When the Settlement Agreement became effective, each of these states and their participating subdivisions became a part of the National Settlement; however, the New York, Ohio and Rhode Island agreements required us to make certain payments separately from those required by the Settlement Agreement. Accordingly, during fiscal 2022, we made payments under the separate New York, Ohio and Rhode Island settlements, as well as certain payments under the Cherokee Nation settlement. In total, we paid $417 million in connection with these matters during fiscal 2022. We have $6.36 billion accrued at June 30, 2022, of which $532 million is included in other accrued liabilities, and the remainder is included in deferred income taxes and other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. In July 2022, we made our second annual payment of $374 million under the Settlement Agreement.

Other Settlements

West Virginia subdivisions and Native American tribes are not a part of the National Settlement and we had separate negotiations with these groups. A bench trial before a federal judge in West Virginia in a case brought by Cabell County and City of Huntington against the Distributors concluded in July 2021. In July 2022, a judgment in favor of the Distributors was entered. In July 2022, the Distributors reached an agreement to settle the opioid-related claims of the majority of the remaining West Virginia subdivisions. Under this agreement, Cardinal Health agreed to pay eligible West Virginia subdivisions up to approximately $124 million over an eleven-year period. This agreement is subject to certain contingencies related to subdivision participation. In September 2021, we announced that the Distributors had reached an agreement with the Cherokee Nation in connection with ongoing negotiations toward a broader agreement with Native American tribes. In January 2022, the Distributors executed a term sheet with the Native American tribes. 

In May 2022, the Distributors reached an agreement with the Washington Attorney General, under which Cardinal Health will pay up to approximately $160 million to the State of Washington and its participating political subdivisions to resolve opioid-related claims. This amount is consistent with the amount that would have been allocated to Washington under the Settlement Agreement plus certain attorneys’ fees and costs. The terms of this agreement are consistent with the Settlement Agreement. This agreement is subject to certain contingencies, including the rate of subdivision participation. 

In June 2022, the Distributors reached an agreement with the State of Oklahoma to resolve the opioid-related claims of the state and its political subdivisions. Under this agreement, Cardinal Health agreed to pay up to approximately $95 million to the State and its participating 

 6Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K

MD&AOverview

subdivisions. This amount is consistent with the amount that would have been allocated to Oklahoma under the Settlement Agreement. The terms of this agreement are consistent with the terms of the Settlement Agreement. This agreement is subject to certain contingencies, including the rate of subdivision participation. If this agreement and the Washington agreement are finalized, Oklahoma and Washington would be subject to the Settlement Agreement and 48 of 49 eligible states would then be subject to the Settlement Agreement. 

In addition to the lawsuits and claims brought by states and governmental entities, described above, we are involved in other opioid-related litigation and investigations, which are described further in Note 7 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” 

Because loss contingencies are inherently unpredictable and unfavorable developments or resolutions can occur, the assessment is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. We regularly review these opioid litigation matters to determine whether our accrual is adequate. The amount of ultimate loss may differ materially from this accrual. See Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information.

Inflationary Impacts and Global Supply Chain Constraints

Medical segment profit was significantly negatively affected by inflationary impacts, primarily related to transportation (including ocean and domestic freight), commodities, labor, and global supply chain constraints in fiscal 2022.

We expect these inflationary impacts and global supply chain constraints to continue to adversely impact Medical segment profit in fiscal 2023 and beyond. In order to partially mitigate this impact, we have implemented initial phases of price increases and we intend to implement additional price increases. We are also evolving our commercial contracting processes to provide us with greater pricing flexibility and investing in additional supply chain capacity. These increased costs and global supply chain constraints are difficult to predict and may be greater than we expect or continue longer than our current expectations. In the event these costs decrease, the benefit to Medical segment profit will be delayed until the higher-cost inventory has moved through our supply chain. Our plans to increase prices and evolve our contracting strategies are subject to contingencies and uncertainties and it is possible that our results of operations will be adversely impacted to a greater extent than we currently anticipate.

To a lesser extent, inflationary impacts, primarily related to increased transportation and labor costs, also adversely impacted Pharmaceutical segment profit during fiscal 2022. We expect these inflationary costs to continue to adversely impact Pharmaceutical segment profit in fiscal 2023.

PPE Demand and Pricing

Personal protective equipment ("PPE") refers to protective clothing, medical and non-medical grade gloves, face shields, face masks and other equipment designed to protect the wearer from injury or the spread of infection or illness. Demand for PPE has fluctuated during fiscal 2022 and 2021, resulting in variability in sales volumes, inventory levels and costs to manufacture and source these products.

PPE adversely impacted Medical segment profit on a year-over-year basis during fiscal 2022 primarily due to declines in volume and the prior-year positive impact of the timing of PPE cost mitigation efforts (primarily pricing). The demand and pricing for PPE is subject to risks and uncertainties, which may impact Medical segment profit and consolidated operating earnings in fiscal 2023.

The year-over-year comparison was also impacted by an inventory reserve of $197 million, primarily related to certain categories of gloves, which adversely impacted Medical segment profit in fiscal 2021. See "Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates" section of this MD&A for additional detail.

Medical Goodwill

Due to the adverse impact on our financial results from, the risks and uncertainties related to inflationary impacts, global supply chain constraints and PPE demand and pricing, and increases in the risk-free interest rate, we performed goodwill impairment testing for the Medical reporting unit within the Medical segment during fiscal 2022. This testing resulted in cumulative pre-tax charges of $2.1 billion, which are included in impairments and (gain)/loss on disposal of assets in our consolidated statements of earnings/(loss). See "Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates" section of this MD&A and Note 4 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional detail.

Adverse changes in key assumptions or a significant change in industry or economic trends during fiscal 2023 could result in additional goodwill impairment.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K7

MD&AOverview

Pharmaceutical Segment Generics Program

The performance of our Pharmaceutical segment generics program positively impacted the year-over-year comparison of Pharmaceutical segment profit in fiscal 2022, which includes improvement in volumes compared to the prior-year period. The Pharmaceutical segment generics program includes, among other things, the impact of generic pharmaceutical product launches, customer volumes, pricing changes and the Red Oak Sourcing, LLC venture ("Red Oak Sourcing") with CVS Health Corporation ("CVS Health"). The frequency, timing, magnitude and profit impact of generic pharmaceutical customer volumes, pricing changes, customer contract renewals, and branded and generic pharmaceutical manufacturer pricing changes all impact Pharmaceutical segment profit and are subject to risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties may impact Pharmaceutical segment profit and consolidated operating earnings in fiscal 2023.

Cordis Divestiture

In August 2021, we sold the Cordis business to Hellman & Friedman for proceeds of $923 million, net of cash transferred, and we retained certain working capital accounts and certain liabilities. Cardinal Health will retain product liability associated with lawsuits and claims related to inferior vena cava ("IVC") filters in the U.S. and Canada, as well as authority for these matters discussed in Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." In connection with the closing, we entered into a Transition Services Agreement ("TSA") with the buyer to provide support functions for a period of up to twenty-four months following the sale. See Note 2 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information.

As anticipated, Medical segment revenue and Medical segment profit were adversely impacted by approximately $700 million and $70 million, respectively, in fiscal 2022 due to the divestiture of the Cordis business. The divestiture also resulted in a decrease in amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets during fiscal 2022. The divestiture of the Cordis business is subject to risks and uncertainties that may further adversely impact Medical segment profit. For example, the TSA period may be extended beyond our current expectations or could have unintended consequences, and the costs associated with the exit or disposal activities and stranded costs could be greater than anticipated.

 8Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K

MD&AResults of Operations

Results of Operations

Revenue

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2022 Compared to Fiscal 2021 

Pharmaceutical Segment

Fiscal 2022 Pharmaceutical segment revenue grew by $19.6 billion primarily due to sales growth from pharmaceutical distribution and specialty pharmaceutical customers, which largely consisted of branded pharmaceutical sales to existing and net new customers.

Medical Segment

Fiscal 2022 Medical segment revenue decreased by $800 million, primarily due to the impact of the divestiture of the Cordis business. Medical segment revenue was also adversely impacted by lower volumes within products and distribution, which was partially offset by sales growth in at-Home Solutions.

Cost of Products Sold

Cost of products sold for fiscal 2022 increased $19.1 billion (12 percent) due to the factors affecting the changes in revenue and gross margin.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K9

MD&AResults of Operations

Gross Margin

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2022 Compared to Fiscal 2021 

Fiscal 2022 consolidated gross margin decreased primarily due to the divestiture of the Cordis business and increased costs in the Medical segment due to net inflationary impacts and the adverse impact of global supply chain constraints, partially offset by the performance of our Pharmaceutical segment generics program and an improvement in volumes, primarily in generic and branded pharmaceuticals, compared to the prior-year period. The year-over-year comparison was also favorably impacted by the prior-year inventory reserve recorded in the Medical segment to reduce the carrying value of certain PPE, primarily certain categories of gloves, to net realizable value. 

Gross margin rate declined 56 basis points during fiscal 2022 mainly due to changes in overall product mix, primarily driven by increased pharmaceutical distribution branded sales, which have a dilutive impact on our overall gross margin rate. The performance of Medical segment products and distribution, which reflects the divestiture of the Cordis business and increased costs due to net inflationary impacts and the adverse impact of global supply chain constraints, also had an adverse impact on gross margin rate. The year-over-year comparison was favorably impacted by the prior-year inventory reserve recorded in the Medical segment to reduce the carrying value of certain PPE, primarily certain categories of gloves, to net realizable value.

Distribution, Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2022 Compared to Fiscal 2021 

SG&A expenses increased slightly during fiscal 2022 largely due to inflationary impacts, primarily related to increased transportation and labor costs, increased costs related to investments in information technology infrastructure and higher costs to support sales growth, primarily offset by the impact of the divestiture of the Cordis business.

The year-over-year comparison was also favorably impacted by the prior-year $41 million accrual for our estimated portion of the assessment on prescription opioid medications that were sold or distributed in New York state in calendar year 2017 and 2018 which was recognized during fiscal 2021. See Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information on the New York Opioid Stewardship Act.

 10Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K

MD&AResults of Operations

Segment Profit

We evaluate segment performance based on segment profit, among other measures. See Note 13 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information on segment profit.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2022 Compared to Fiscal 2021 

Pharmaceutical Segment Profit

Fiscal 2022 Pharmaceutical segment profit increased due to the performance of our generics program, partially offset by increased costs related to investments in information technology infrastructure and inflationary impacts, primarily related to increased transportation and labor costs. Pharmaceutical segment profit was also positively impacted by improvement in volumes, primarily in generic and branded pharmaceuticals, compared to the prior-year period.

Pharmaceutical segment profit includes opioid-related litigation defense and compliance costs, but does not include a one-time contingent attorneys' fee of $18 million recorded in fiscal 2022, which related to the finalization of the Settlement Agreement. Due to the unique nature and significance of the Settlement Agreement, and the one-time, contingent nature of the fee, this fee was included in litigation (recoveries)/charges, net in the consolidated statements of earnings/(loss).

Fiscal 2022 Pharmaceutical segment profit was positively impacted by a $16 million judgment for lost profits related to an ordinary course intellectual property rights claim. 

Medical Segment Profit

Fiscal 2022 Medical segment profit decreased largely due to net inflationary impacts (which primarily related to increased transportation and commodities costs, partially offset by price increases), the adverse impact of global supply chain constraints and the divestiture of the Cordis business. The year-over-year comparison of Medical segment profit was also impacted favorably by the prior-year inventory reserve recorded to reduce the carrying value of certain PPE, primarily certain categories of gloves, to net realizable value, and unfavorably by the prior-year net positive impact of PPE sales.

Corporate

The changes in Corporate during fiscal 2022 are due to the factors discussed in the Other Components of Consolidated Operating Earnings/(Loss) section that follows.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K11

MD&AResults of Operations

Other Components of Consolidated Operating Earnings/(Loss)

In addition to revenue, gross margin, and SG&A expenses discussed previously, consolidated operating earnings/(loss) were impacted by the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Restructuring and Employee Severance

In fiscal 2022, restructuring costs were primarily related to the implementation of certain enterprise-wide cost-savings measures, which includes facility exit costs related to decreasing our overall office space, and the divestiture of the Cordis business. 

Amortization and Other Acquisition-Related Costs

Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $311 million and $428 million for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively. The decrease in amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was primarily due to the divestiture of the Cordis business.

Impairments and (Gain)/Loss on Disposal of Assets, Net

During fiscal 2022, we recognized $2.1 billion of pre-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charges related to our Medical segment, as discussed further in the "Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates" section of this MD&A and Note 4 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

During fiscal 2021, we recognized a $60 million pre-tax write-down of the assets held for sale from the divestiture of the Cordis business. 

Litigation (Recoveries)/Charges, Net

During fiscal 2022 and 2021, we recognized estimated losses and legal defense costs associated with the IVC filter product liability claims of $87 million and $56 million, respectively. See Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information.

During fiscal 2022, we incurred a one-time contingent attorneys' fee of $18 million related to the finalization of the Settlement Agreement resulting in the settlement of the vast majority of opioid lawsuits filed by state and local governmental entities. Due to the unique nature and significance of the Settlement Agreement, and the one-time, contingent nature of the fee, this fee was included in litigation (recoveries)/charges, net.

During fiscal 2022 and 2021, we recognized income of $18 million and $112 million, respectively, for recoveries in class action antitrust lawsuits in which we were a class member.

During fiscal 2021, we recognized pre-tax charges of $1.17 billion associated with certain opioid matters. See Significant Developments in Fiscal 2022 and Trends section in this MD&A and Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information.

During fiscal 2021, we recognized a $13 million charge in connection with a civil investigation by the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts related to discounts and rebates offered or provided to certain Specialty Solutions customers, as described further in Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information.

Other Components of Earnings/(Loss) Before Income Taxes

In addition to the items discussed above, earnings/(loss) before income taxes was impacted by the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other (Income)/Expense, Net

During fiscal 2022, other (income)/expense, net was unfavorable compared to the prior-year period primarily due to a decrease in the value of our deferred compensation plan investments, which offsets fluctuations included within SG&A expenses and is discussed further in Note 9 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." The year-over-year comparison was also adversely impacted from net losses on investments in non-marketable equity securities recognized during fiscal 2022 compared to net gains recognized in fiscal 2021.

 12Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K

MD&AResults of Operations

Interest Expense, Net

Fiscal 2022 interest expense decreased from fiscal 2021 primarily due to less debt outstanding.

Loss On Early Extinguishment of Debt

During fiscal 2022 and 2021, we recognized losses of $10 million and $14 million, respectively, in connection with the redemption and early debt repurchases as described further in Note 6 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

Provision for Income Taxes

Fluctuations in the effective tax rates are primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charges recognized in the Medical segment in fiscal 2022, the opioid litigation accrual recognized in fiscal 2021, as well as the impact of the carryback claim filed in accordance with the CARES Act provision in fiscal year 2021.

A reconciliation of the provision based on the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate from continuing operations is as follows (see Note 8 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The table represents the following: fiscal 2022 is pretax loss with tax expense and fiscal 2021 is pretax income with tax benefit.

(2) Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.

(3) Includes the tax impact of Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income ("GILTI") tax, the Foreign-Derived Intangible Income deduction and other foreign income that is taxable under the U.S. tax code.

Fiscal 2022 Compared to Fiscal 2021 

During fiscal 2022 and 2021, the effective tax rate was (21.2) percent and (89.7) percent, respectively. Included in the effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 was $150 million of benefit related to the impairment of goodwill within the Medical segment. Included in the effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 was a $424 million benefit from the net operating loss carryback primarily related to a self-insurance pre-tax loss and net tax benefits related to the treatment of the tax impacts of the fiscal 2021 opioid litigation charges.

Tax Effects of Goodwill Impairment Charge

During fiscal 2022, we recognized year-to-date cumulative pre-tax charges of $2.1 billion for goodwill impairment related to the Medical Unit. The net tax benefit related to these charges was $150 million for fiscal 2022.

Tax Effects of Self-Insurance Pre-tax Loss

During fiscal 2021, our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary recorded a self-insurance pre-tax loss in its fiscal 2020 statutory financial statements primarily related to opioid litigation. This self-insurance pre-tax loss, which did not impact our pre-tax consolidated results, was deducted on our fiscal 2020 consolidated federal income tax return and contributed to a significant net operating loss for tax purposes. The net operating loss was carried back and applied to adjust our taxable income for fiscal 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018 as permitted under the CARES Act enacted by the United States Congress in March 2020.

Accordingly, our provision for income taxes during fiscal 2021 included a $424 million benefit from the net operating loss carryback primarily to reflect the difference between the federal statutory income tax rate during the fiscal years from 2015 to 2018 (35 percent for fiscal 2015, 2016, and 2017 and 28 percent for fiscal 2018) and the current federal statutory income tax rate of 21 percent.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K13

MD&AResults of Operations

During fiscal 2022, we received a U.S. federal income tax refund of $966 million in connection with this matter. We also increased our non-current deferred tax liability by approximately $700 million during fiscal 2021 related to this matter.

Tax Effect of Opioid Litigation Charges

The net tax benefits associated with the opioid litigation charges were $228 million for fiscal 2021. Our tax benefits are estimates, which reflect our current assessment of the estimated future deductibility of the amount that may be paid under the accrual taken in connection with the opioid litigation and are net of unrecognized tax benefits of $219 million. The fiscal 2021 net tax benefit and unrecognized tax benefits were primarily due to our assessment of the specific terms of the Settlement Agreement. Our assumptions and estimates around this benefit and uncertain tax position require significant judgment and the actual amount of tax benefit may differ materially from these estimates.

Ongoing Audits

We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various U.S. state jurisdictions and various foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions, we are subject to audit by taxing authorities for fiscal years 2015 through the current fiscal year. Tax laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. New challenges related to future audits may adversely affect our effective tax rate or tax payments.

 14Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K

MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We currently believe that, based on available capital resources (cash on hand and committed credit facilities) and projected operating cash flow, we have adequate capital resources to fund working capital needs; currently anticipated capital expenditures; currently anticipated business growth and expansion; contractual obligations and cash requirements; tax payments; current and projected debt service requirements, dividends and share repurchases; and known opioid litigation settlement payments. If we decide to engage in one or more acquisitions, depending on the size and timing of such transactions, we may need to access capital markets for additional financing.

Cash and Equivalents

Our cash and equivalents balance was $4.7 billion at June 30, 2022 compared to $3.4 billion at June 30, 2021. Net cash provided by operating activities includes a refund of $966 million for the tax benefit from the net operating loss carryback related to a self-insurance pre-tax loss, and reflects the impact of $417 million of payments related to the settlement agreement (the "Settlement Agreement") to settle the vast majority of the opioid lawsuits filed by states and local governmental entities, payments under the separate New York, Ohio and Rhode Island settlements, as well as certain payments under the Cherokee Nation settlement. Fiscal 2022 operating cash flow was also impacted by favorable timing of net working capital and we expect some of this favorability to be offset in fiscal 2023. We also received proceeds of $923 million, net of cash transferred, from the divestiture of the Cordis business. We deployed $1.0 billion for share repurchases, $885 million for debt repayments, $559 million for dividends and $387 million for capital expenditures. At June 30, 2022, our cash and equivalents were held in cash depository accounts with major banks or invested in high quality, short-term liquid investments.

During fiscal 2021, our cash and equivalents increased due to $2.4 billion of net cash provided by operating activities, offset by cash deployed of $573 million for dividends, $570 million for debt repayments, $400 million for capital expenditures and $200 million for share repurchases.

Changes in working capital, which impact operating cash flow, can vary significantly depending on factors such as the timing of customer payments, inventory purchases, payments to vendors and tax payments in the regular course of business, as well as fluctuating working capital needs driven by customer and product mix.

The cash and equivalents balance at June 30, 2022 included $588 million of cash and equivalents held by subsidiaries outside of the United States.

In June 2022, we returned $160 million of cash held by foreign subsidiaries to the U.S.

At June 30, 2022, foreign earnings of approximately $833 million are considered indefinitely reinvested for working capital and other offshore investment needs. The computation of tax required if those earnings are repatriated is not practicable. For amounts not considered indefinitely reinvested, we have recorded an immaterial amount of income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in fiscal 2022.

Other Financing Arrangements and Financial Instruments

Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper

In addition to cash and equivalents and operating cash flow, other sources of liquidity at June 30, 2022 include a $2.0 billion commercial paper program, backed by a $2.0 billion revolving credit facility. We also have a $1.0 billion committed receivables sales facility. At June 30, 2022, we had no amounts outstanding under our commercial paper program, revolving credit facility or our committed receivables sales facility. During fiscal 2022, under our commercial paper program and our committed receivables program, we had maximum combined total daily amounts outstanding of $1.2 billion and an average combined daily amount outstanding of $19 million.

In May 2022, we amended our receivables sales facility to temporarily increase the maximum permitted delinquency ratio.

Our revolving credit and committed receivables sales facilities require us to maintain a consolidated net leverage ratio of no more 

than 3.75-to-1. As of June 30, 2022, we were in compliance with this financial covenant. 

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K15

MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources

Long-Term Obligations

At June 30, 2022, we had total long-term obligations, including the current portion and other short-term borrowings of $5.3 billion. 

During fiscal 2022, we redeemed all outstanding $572 million principal amount of 2.616% Notes due 2022 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount and accrued but unpaid interest, plus the make-whole premium applicable to the notes. In connection with this redemption, we recorded a $10 million loss on early extinguishment of debt. We also repaid the full principal of the $282 million Floating Rate Notes due 2022 as they became due.

During fiscal 2021, we redeemed all outstanding 3.2% Notes due June 2022 for $238 million and $262 million aggregate principal amount of 2.616% Notes due June 2022 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount and accrued but unpaid interest, plus the make-whole premium applicable to the notes. In connection with these redemptions, we recorded a $13 million loss on early extinguishment of debt. We also early repurchased $40 million of the Floating Rate Notes due 2022 and $2 million of the 2.616% Notes due 2022 with available cash. In connection with the early debt repurchases, we recorded a $1 million loss on early extinguishment of debt.

The redemption and repurchases were paid for with available cash and other short-term borrowings.

Risk Management

We use interest rate swaps, foreign currency contracts and commodity contracts to manage our exposure to cash flow variability. We also use interest rate swaps to protect the value of our debt and use foreign currency forward contracts to protect the value of our existing and forecasted foreign currency assets and liabilities. See the "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" section as well as Note 1 and Note 10 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives as well as foreign currency, interest rate and commodity exposures.

Capital Deployment

Opioid Litigation Settlement Agreement

We had $6.36 billion accrued at June 30, 2022 related to certain opioid litigation, as further described within the Significant Developments in Fiscal 2022 and Trends section in this MD&A and Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." We expect the majority of the payment amounts to be spread over 18 years. During fiscal 2022, we paid our first annual payment under the Settlement Agreement. We also made certain payments under the separate New York, Ohio and Rhode Island settlements, as well as certain payments under the Cherokee Nation Settlement. The effective date of the Settlement Agreement was April 2, 2022. In July 2022, we made our second annual payment of $374 million under the Settlement Agreement. We expect to make subsequent annual payments under the Settlement Agreement every July for the term of the Settlement Agreement. The amounts of these future payments may differ from the payments that we have already made.

Capital Expenditures

Capital expenditures during fiscal 2022 and 2021 were $387 million and $400 million, respectively.

We expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2023 to be around $500 million and to be primarily related to manufacturing and distribution infrastructure projects. 

Dividends

During fiscal 2022, we paid quarterly dividends totaling $1.96 per share, an increase of 1 percent from fiscal 2021.

On May 10, 2022, our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.4957 per share, or $1.98 per share on an annualized basis, which was paid on July 15, 2022 to shareholders of record on July 1, 2022.

On August 10, 2022, our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.4957 per share, payable on October 15, 2022 to shareholders of record on October 3, 2022.

Share Repurchases

During fiscal 2022 and 2021, we repurchased $1.0 billion and $200 million, respectively, of our common shares. We funded the repurchases with available cash. See Note 11 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information. 

At June 30, 2021, we had $743 million authorized for share repurchases remaining on a program that expired on December 31, 2021. On November 4, 2021, our Board of Directors approved a $3.0 billion share repurchase program, which will expire on December 31, 2024. At June 30, 2022, we had $2.7 billion remaining authorized for share repurchases under this program.

 16Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K

MD&AOther

Contractual Obligations and Cash Requirements

At June 30, 2022, our contractual obligations and future cash requirements, including estimated payments due by period, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Represents maturities of our long-term debt obligations and other short-term borrowings excluding finance lease obligations described below. See Note 6 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information.

(2)Represents minimum finance lease obligations included within current portion of long-term obligations and other short-term borrowings and long-term obligations, less current portion in our consolidated balance sheets and further described in Note 5 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

(3)Represents minimum operating lease obligations included within other accrued liabilities and deferred income taxes and other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets and further described in Note 5 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

(4)A purchase obligation is defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is legally enforceable and specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or 

variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which we are obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally canceled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from our total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. Purchase obligations and other payments also includes quarterly payments to CVS Health in connection with Red Oak Sourcing. See Note 7 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information.

(5)Represents future cash obligations under the Settlement Agreement, which became effective on April 2, 2022, as well as future cash obligations under the separate settlement agreements with the States of Oklahoma, Washington and West Virginia and the Cherokee Nation. We have $6.36 billion accrued at June 30, 2022, of which $532 million is included in other accrued liabilities, and the remainder is included in deferred income taxes and other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. Excluded from the table is $41 million that remained in escrow at June 30, 2022, which is included in prepaid expenses and other assets in our consolidated balance sheets. The Settlement Agreement includes a cash component, pursuant to which we will pay up to approximately $6.0 billion, the majority of which is expected to be paid over 18 years. The exact payment amount will depend on several factors, including the extent to which states take action to foreclose opioid lawsuits by political subdivisions (e.g., by passing laws barring or limiting opioid lawsuits by political subdivisions, the conditions of the state agreements being satisfied, and the extent to which additional political subdivisions in participating states continue to litigate against us. See Note 7 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information.

(6)Long-term liabilities, such as unrecognized tax benefits, deferred taxes and other tax liabilities, have been excluded from the above table due to the inherent uncertainty of the underlying tax positions or because of the inability to reasonably estimate the timing of any cash outflows. See Note 8 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion of income taxes.

Recent Financial Accounting Standards

See Note 1 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a discussion of recent financial accounting standards.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K17

MD&ACritical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates

Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates

Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that (i) can have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations and (ii) require the use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and management’s judgment. Other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Because estimates are inherently uncertain, actual results may differ. In this section, we describe the significant policies applied in preparing our consolidated financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on estimates and assumptions. For further discussion of accounting policies for items within this section and of additional accounting policies, see Note 1 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

The allowance for doubtful accounts includes general and specific reserves. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by reviewing accounts receivable aging, historical write-off trends, payment history, pricing discrepancies, industry trends, customer financial strength, customer credit ratings or bankruptcies. We regularly evaluate how changes in economic conditions may affect credit risks. See Note 1 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information on our policy for Receivables and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.

A hypothetical 0.1 percent increase or decrease in the reserve as a percentage of trade receivables at June 30, 2022, would result in an increase or decrease in bad debt expense of $11 million. We believe the reserve maintained and expenses recorded in fiscal 2022 are appropriate.

At this time, we are not aware of any analytical findings or customer issues that are likely to lead to a significant future 

increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of revenue. The following table presents information regarding our allowance for doubtful accounts over the past three fiscal years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.

Inventories

LIFO Inventory

A portion of our inventories (52 percent and 50 percent at June 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively) are valued at the lower of cost, using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method, or market. These are primarily merchandise inventories at the core pharmaceutical distribution facilities within our Pharmaceutical segment (“distribution facilities”). The LIFO impact on the consolidated statements of earnings/(loss) depends on pharmaceutical manufacturer price appreciation or deflation and our fiscal year-end inventory levels, which can be meaningfully influenced by customer buying behavior immediately preceding our fiscal year-end. Historically, prices for branded pharmaceuticals have generally tended to rise, resulting in an increase in cost of products sold, whereas prices for generic pharmaceuticals generally tend to decline, resulting in a decrease in cost of products sold. See Note 1 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information on our policy for Inventories.

Using LIFO, if there is a decrease in inventory levels that have experienced pharmaceutical price appreciation, the result generally will be a decrease in future cost of products sold as our older inventory is held at a lower cost. Conversely, if there is a decrease in inventory levels that have experienced a pharmaceutical price decline, the result generally will be an 

increase in future cost of products sold as our older inventory is held at a higher cost. 

We believe that the average cost method of inventory valuation provides a reasonable approximation of the current cost of replacing inventory within these distribution facilities. As such, the LIFO reserve is the difference between (a) inventory at the lower of LIFO cost or market and (b) inventory at replacement cost determined using the average cost method of inventory valuation. At June 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively, inventories valued at LIFO cost were $416 million and $565 million higher than the average cost value. We do not record inventories in excess of replacement cost. As such, we did not write-up the value of our inventory from average cost to LIFO cost at June 30, 2022 or 2021.

FIFO Inventory

Our remaining inventory, including inventory in our Medical segment, that is not valued at the lower of LIFO cost or market is stated at the lower of cost, using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method, or net realizable value. We reserve for the lower of cost or net realizable value using the estimated selling prices and estimated sales demand in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. Due to the unprecedented demand for certain PPE 

 18Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K

MD&ACritical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates

as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic ("COVID-19") in fiscal 2021 and 2020, our Medical segment manufactured and sourced inventory at higher costs than in periods prior to COVID-19. As selling prices and customer demand decreased compared to the peak of COVID-19, we recorded a reserve of $197 million in fiscal 2021, primarily related to certain categories of gloves, to reduce the carrying value of certain PPE to its net realizable value. The remaining reserve at June 30, 2022 was $42 million, primarily due to sales of certain PPE during fiscal 2022. Our estimates for selling prices and demand are inherently uncertain and if our assumptions decline in the future, additional inventory reserves may be required.

Excess and Obsolete Inventory

We reserve for inventory obsolescence using estimates based on historical experience, historical and projected sales trends, specific categories of inventory, age and expiration dates of on-hand inventory and manufacturer return policies. Inventories presented in the consolidated balance sheets are net of reserves for excess and obsolete inventory which were $147 million and $185 million at June 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. If actual conditions are less favorable than our assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required.

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

Purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. Goodwill impairment testing involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of reporting units to the respective carrying amount, which may be performed utilizing either a qualitative or quantitative assessment. Qualitative factors are first assessed to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. There is an option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the quantitative goodwill impairment test. We have elected to bypass the qualitative assessment for the annual goodwill impairment test in the current year. The quantitative goodwill impairment test involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to the respective carrying amount. A reporting unit is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment (also known as a component). 

We have two operating segments, which are the same as our reportable segments: Pharmaceutical and Medical. These operating segments are comprised of divisions (which are components), for which discrete financial information is available. Components are aggregated into reporting units for purposes of goodwill impairment testing to the extent that they share similar economic characteristics. Our reporting units are: Pharmaceutical operating segment (excluding our Nuclear and Precision Health Solutions division); Nuclear and Precision Health Solutions division; Medical operating segment (excluding our Cardinal Health at-Home Solutions division) (“Medical Unit”); and Cardinal Health at-Home Solutions division. 

Goodwill impairment testing involves judgment, including the identification of reporting units, qualitative evaluation of events and circumstances to determine if it is more likely than not that an impairment exists and, if necessary, the estimation of the fair value of the applicable reporting unit. 

Our determination of estimated fair value of our reporting units is based on a combination of the income-based and market-based approaches (using discount rates ranging from 10 to 12 percent). We use discount rates that are commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the respective reporting units and in our 

internally-developed forecasts. Under the market-based guideline public company method, we determine fair value by comparing our reporting units to similar businesses or guideline companies whose securities are actively traded in public markets. We also use the market-based guideline transaction method to determine fair value based on pricing multiples derived from the sale of companies that are similar to our reporting units.

Estimating the fair value of reporting units requires the use of estimates and significant judgments that are based on a number of factors including actual operating results. The use of alternate estimates and assumptions, changes in the industry or peer groups, or changes in weightings assigned to the discounted cash flow method, guideline public company method or guideline transaction method could materially affect the determination of fair value for each reporting unit and potentially result in goodwill impairment. If a reporting unit fails to achieve expected earnings or operating cash flow, or otherwise fails to meet current financial plans, or if there were changes to any other key assumptions used in the tests, the reporting unit could incur a goodwill impairment in a future period. 

We performed annual impairment testing in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 and, with the exception of the Medical Unit in fiscal 2022, concluded that there were no impairments of goodwill as the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. 

Medical Unit Goodwill

During fiscal 2022, the Medical Unit experienced adverse financial results related to inflationary impacts and the adverse impact of global supply chain constraints and lower volumes from PPE. Due to the risks and uncertainties related to these impacts and an increase in the risk-free interest rate used in the discount rate, we elected to bypass the qualitative assessment and perform quantitative goodwill impairment testing for the Medical Unit at June 30, 2022. This quantitative testing resulted in the carrying amount of the Medical Unit exceeding the fair value, resulting in a pre-tax impairment charge of $303 million and cumulative pre-tax impairment charges of $2.1 billion recognized during fiscal 2022, due to the impairment charges recognized during the third and second quarters of fiscal 2022 as described further below. This 

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K19

MD&ACritical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates

impairment charge was driven by an increase in the discount rate primarily due to an increase in the risk-free interest rate. Our determination of the estimated fair value of the Medical Unit was based on a combination of the income-based approach and the market-based approach. For this testing performed at June 30, 2022, we used a discount rate of 10 percent and a terminal growth rate of 2 percent. Additionally, we assigned a weighting of 80 percent to the discounted cash flow method, 10 percent to the guideline public company method, and 10 percent to the guideline transaction method. The carrying value of the Medical Unit at June 30, 2022 after recognizing the impairment charges was $7.0 billion, of which $1.9 billion was goodwill. See Note 4 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion.

During the third and second quarters of fiscal 2022, we performed interim goodwill impairment testing for the Medical Unit at March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, which resulted in pre-tax impairment charges of $474 million and $1.3 billion, respectively. Our determination of the estimated fair value of the Medical Unit was based on a combination of the income-based approach (using a terminal growth rate of 2 percent), and the market-based approach. For the income-based approach, we also used discount rates of 9.5 percent and 9 percent for the interim testing at March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. The increase in the discount rate was primarily due to an increase in the risk-free interest rate.

While we consider these assumptions to be reasonable and appropriate, they are complex and subjective, and additional adverse changes in one key assumption or a combination of key assumptions may significantly affect future estimates. These assumptions include, among other things, a failure to meet expected earnings or other financial plans, or unanticipated events and circumstances, such as changes in assumptions about the 

duration and magnitude of increased supply chain and commodities costs and our planned efforts to mitigate such impact, including price increases or surcharges; further disruptions in the supply chain; the impact of the Cordis divestiture; estimated demand and selling prices for PPE; an increase in the discount rate; a decrease in the terminal growth rate; increases in tax rates (including potential tax reform); or a significant change in industry or economic trends. Adverse changes in key assumptions may result in further decline in fair value below the carrying value in the future and therefore, an impairment of our Medical Unit goodwill in future periods, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For example, if we were to increase the discount rate by a hypothetical 0.5 percent or decrease the terminal growth rate by a hypothetical 1.75 percent, the fair value for the Medical Unit would have further decreased by approximately $330 million.

The impairment test for indefinite-lived intangibles other than goodwill (primarily trademarks) involves first assessing qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. If so, then a quantitative test is performed to compare the estimated fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to the respective asset's carrying amount. Our qualitative evaluation requires the use of estimates and significant judgments and considers the weight of evidence and significance of all identified events and circumstances and most relevant drivers of fair value, both positive and negative, in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount.

See Note 1 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information regarding goodwill and other intangible assets.

Loss Contingencies and Self-Insurance

We regularly review contingencies and self-insurance accruals to determine whether our accruals and related disclosures are adequate. Any adjustments for changes in reserves are recorded in the period in which the change in estimate occurs.

Loss Contingencies

We accrue for contingencies related to disputes, litigation and regulatory matters if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Because these matters are inherently unpredictable and unfavorable developments or outcomes can occur, assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events.

Examples of such contingencies include various lawsuits related to the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications and the IVC filter lawsuits.

In connection with the opioid litigation as described further in the Significant Developments in Fiscal 2022 and Trends section in this MD&A, we recorded pre-tax charges of $1.17 billion during fiscal 2021. In February 2022, we and two other national distributors announced that each company had determined that a sufficient 

number of political subdivisions had agreed to participate in the previously disclosed Settlement Agreement to settle the vast majority of the opioid lawsuits filed by states and local governmental entities. This Settlement Agreement became effective on April 2, 2022. 

We develop and periodically update reserve estimates for the IVC claims, including those received to date and expected to be received in the future and related costs. To project future IVC claim costs, we use a methodology based largely on recent experience, including claim filing rates, estimated severity by claim type, historical sales data, implant and injury to report lag patterns and estimated defense costs.

Self-Insurance

We self-insure through a wholly-owned insurance subsidiary for employee healthcare, certain product liability matters, auto liability, property and workers' compensation and maintain insurance for losses exceeding certain limits.

Self-insurance accruals include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, defense costs, administrative fees, 

 20Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K

MD&ACritical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates

claims adjustment costs and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. For certain types of exposures, we develop the estimate of expected ultimate costs to settle each claim based on specific information related to each claim if available. Other estimates are based on an assessment of outstanding claims, historical analysis and current payment trends. For claims incurred but not reported, the liabilities are calculated and derived in accordance with generally accepted actuarial practices or using an estimated lag period.

The amount of loss may differ materially from these estimates. See Note 7 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information regarding loss contingencies and product liability lawsuits.

We regularly review contingencies and self-insurance accruals to determine whether our accruals and related disclosures are adequate. Any adjustments for changes in reserves are recorded in the period in which the change in estimate occurs.

Provision for Income Taxes

We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in the respective jurisdictions in which we operate. Our income tax expense, deferred income tax assets and liabilities, and unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the consolidated financial statements.

The following table presents information about our tax position at June 30:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Total deferred income tax assets included $778 million and $805 million of loss and tax credit carryforwards at June 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

(2) The valuation allowance primarily relates to federal, state and international loss and credit carryforwards for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain.

Expiring or unusable loss and credit carryforwards and the required valuation allowances are adjusted quarterly when it is more likely than not that at least a portion of the respective deferred tax assets will not be realized. After applying the valuation allowances, we do not anticipate any limitations on our use of any of the other net deferred income tax assets described previously. We operate in a complex multinational tax environment and are subject to tax treaty arrangements and transfer pricing guidelines for intercompany transactions that are subject to interpretation. Uncertainty in a tax position may arise as tax laws are subject to interpretation. 

Tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination of the technical merits of the position, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. For tax benefits that do not qualify for recognition, we recognize a liability for unrecognized tax benefits.

Tax Effects of Goodwill Impairment Charges

During fiscal 2022, we recognized cumulative pre-tax charges of $2.1 billion for goodwill impairments related to the Medical Unit. The net tax benefit related to these charges was $150 million.

Tax Effects of Self-Insurance Pre-tax Loss

During fiscal 2021, our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary recorded a self-insurance pre-tax loss in its fiscal 2020 statutory financial statements primarily related to opioid litigation. This self-insurance pre-tax loss, which did not impact our pre-tax consolidated results, was deducted on our fiscal 2020 consolidated federal income tax return and contributed to a significant net operating loss for tax purposes. The net operating loss was carried back and applied to adjust our taxable income for fiscal 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018 as permitted under the CARES Act enacted by the United States Congress in March 2020.

Accordingly, our provision for income taxes during fiscal 2021 included a $424 million benefit from the net operating loss carryback primarily to reflect the difference between the federal statutory income tax rate during the fiscal years from 2015 to 2018 (35 percent for fiscal 2015, 2016, and 2017 and 28 percent for fiscal 2018) and the current federal statutory income tax rate of 21 percent.

We filed for a U.S. federal income tax refund of $974 million as a result of the net operating loss carryback under the CARES Act. In April 2022, we received a payment for $966 million, which was net of certain adjustments. See Note 8 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional detail. We also increased our non-current deferred tax liability by approximately $700 million during fiscal 2021 related to this matter.

Tax Effects of Opioid Litigation Charges

In connection with the $1.17 billion pre-tax charges for the opioid litigation during fiscal year 2021, respectively we recorded a tax benefit of $228 million. Our tax benefits are estimates, which reflect our current assessment of the estimated future deductibility of the amount that may be paid under the accrual taken in connection with the opioid litigation and are net of unrecognized tax benefits of $219 million.

We have made reasonable estimates and recorded amounts based on management's judgment and our current understanding of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act"); however, these estimates require significant judgment since the U.S. tax law 

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K21

MD&ACritical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates

governing deductibility was changed by the Tax Act. Further, it is possible Congress or the tax authorities could challenge our interpretation of the Tax Act or the estimates and assumptions used to assess the future deductibility of these benefits. The actual amount of the tax benefit may differ materially from these estimates.

We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various U.S. state jurisdictions and various foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions, we are subject to audit by taxing authorities for fiscal years 2015 through the current fiscal year. Tax laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. During fiscal 2021, we resolved all open issues with respect to the Company’s activity within fiscal years 2008 through 2014 with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). This resolution resulted in an adjustment to our provision for income taxes, including an impact to reserves for later years. New challenges related to future audits may adversely affect our effective tax rate or tax payments.

Our assumptions and estimates around uncertain tax positions require significant judgment; the actual amount of tax benefit related to uncertain tax positions may differ from these estimates. See Note 8 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information regarding unrecognized tax benefits.

We believe that our estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and unrecognized tax benefits are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. The amount we ultimately pay when matters are resolved may differ from the amounts accrued. Changes in our current estimates due to unanticipated market conditions, tax law changes or other factors could have a material effect on our ability to utilize deferred tax assets. For a further discussion on Provision for Income Taxes, see Note 8 of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.”

The calculation of our tax liabilities includes estimates for uncertainties in the application of broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code as per the Tax Act as enacted by the United States government on December 22, 2017. We have made reasonable estimates and recorded amounts based on management judgment and our current understanding of the Tax Act which is subject to further interpretation by the IRS. See Note 8 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information.

 22Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

This report, including the "Fiscal 2022 Overview" section within MD&A, contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. 

In addition to analyzing our business based on financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP, we use these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate our performance, engage in financial and operational planning, and determine incentive compensation because we believe that these measures provide additional perspective on and, in some circumstances are more closely correlated to, the performance of our underlying, ongoing business. We provide these non-GAAP financial measures to investors as supplemental metrics to assist readers in assessing the effects of items and events on our financial and operating results on a year-over-year basis and in comparing our performance to that of our competitors. However, the non-GAAP financial measures that we use may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by us should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements set forth below should be carefully evaluated. 

Exclusions from Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Management believes it is useful to exclude the following items from the non-GAAP measures presented in this report for its own and for investors’ assessment of the business for the reasons identified below:

•LIFO charges and credits are excluded because the factors that drive last-in first-out ("LIFO") inventory charges or credits, such as pharmaceutical manufacturer price appreciation or deflation and year-end inventory levels (which can be meaningfully influenced by customer buying behavior immediately preceding our fiscal year-end), are largely out of our control and cannot be accurately predicted. The exclusion of LIFO charges and credits from non-GAAP metrics facilitates comparison of our current financial results to our historical financial results and to our peer group companies’ financial results. We did not recognize any LIFO charges or credits during the periods presented. 

•Surgical gown recall costs or income includes inventory write-offs and certain remediation and supply disruption costs, net of related insurance recoveries, arising from the January 2020 recall of select Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation ("AAMI") Level 3 surgical gowns and voluntary field actions (a recall of some packs and a corrective action allowing overlabeling of other packs) for Presource Procedure Packs containing affected gowns. Income from surgical gown recall costs represents insurance recoveries of these certain costs. We have excluded these costs from our non-GAAP metrics to allow investors to better understand the underlying operating results of the business and to facilitate comparison of our current financial results to our historical financial results and to our peer group companies’ financial results. 

•State opioid assessments related to prior fiscal years is the portion of state assessments for prescription opioid medications that were sold or distributed in periods prior to the period in which the expense is incurred. This portion is excluded from non-GAAP financial measures because it is retrospectively applied to sales in prior fiscal years and inclusion would obscure analysis of the current fiscal year results of our underlying, ongoing business. Additionally, while states' laws may require us to make payments on an ongoing basis, the portion of the assessment related to sales in prior periods are contemplated to be one-time, nonrecurring items. Income from state opioid assessments related to prior fiscal years represents reversals of accruals when the underlying assessments were invalidated by a Court or reimbursed by manufacturers. 

•Restructuring and employee severance costs are excluded because they are not part of the ongoing operations of our underlying business. 

•Amortization and other acquisition-related costs, which include transaction costs, integration costs, and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration obligations, are excluded because they are not part of the ongoing operations of our underlying business and to facilitate comparison of our current financial results to our historical financial results and to our peer group companies' financial results. Additionally, costs for amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets are non-cash amounts, which are variable in amount and frequency and are significantly impacted by the timing and size of acquisitions, so their exclusion facilitates comparison of historical, current and forecasted financial results. We also exclude other acquisition-related costs, which are directly related to an acquisition but do not meet the criteria to be recognized on the acquired entity’s initial balance sheet as part of the purchase price allocation. These costs are also significantly impacted by the timing, complexity and size of acquisitions. 

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K23

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

•Impairments and gain or loss on disposal of assets are excluded because they do not occur in or reflect the ordinary course of our ongoing business operations and are inherently unpredictable in timing and amount, and in the case of impairments, are non-cash amounts, so their exclusion facilitates comparison of historical, current and forecasted financial results. 

•Litigation recoveries or charges, net are excluded because they often relate to events that may have occurred in prior or multiple periods, do not occur in or reflect the ordinary course of our business and are inherently unpredictable in timing and amount. During fiscal 2022, we incurred a one-time contingent attorneys' fee of $18 million related to the finalization of the settlement agreement (the “Settlement Agreement”) resulting in the settlement of the vast majority of opioid lawsuits filed by state and local governmental entities. Due to the unique nature and significance of the Settlement Agreement, and the one-time, contingent nature of the fee, this fee was included in litigation recoveries or charges, net. Additionally, during fiscal 2022 our Pharmaceutical segment profit was positively impacted by a $16 million judgment for lost profits. This judgment was the result of an ordinary course intellectual property rights claim and, therefore, is not adjusted in calculating the litigation recoveries or charges, net adjustment. During fiscal 2021, we incurred a tax benefit related to a carryback of a net operating loss. Some pre-tax amounts, which contributed to this loss, relate to litigation charges. As a result, we allocated substantially all of the tax benefit to litigation charges. 

•Loss on early extinguishment of debt is excluded because it does not typically occur in the normal course of business and may obscure analysis of trends and financial performance. Additionally, the amount and frequency of this type of charge is not consistent and is significantly impacted by the timing and size of debt extinguishment transactions. 

•(Gain)/Loss on sale of equity interest in naviHealth was incurred in connection with the sale of our remaining equity interest in naviHealth in fiscal 2020. The equity interest was retained in connection with the initial sale of our majority interest in naviHealth during fiscal 2019. We exclude this significant gain because gains or losses on investments of this magnitude do not typically occur in the normal course of business and are similar in nature to a gain or loss from a divestiture of a majority interest, which we exclude from non-GAAP results. The gain on the initial sale of our majority interest in naviHealth in fiscal 2019 was also excluded from our non-GAAP measures. 

•Transitional tax benefit, net related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is excluded because it results from the one-time impact of a very significant change in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate and, due to the significant size of the benefit, obscures analysis of trends and financial performance. The transitional tax benefit includes the initial estimate and subsequent adjustments for the re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities due to the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate and the repatriation tax on undistributed foreign earnings. 

The tax effect for each of the items listed above, other than the transitional tax benefit item, is determined using the tax rate and other tax attributes applicable to the item and the jurisdiction(s) in which the item is recorded. The gross, tax and net impact of each item are presented with our GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations. 

Definitions

Growth rate calculation: growth rates in this report are determined by dividing the difference between current period results and prior period results by prior period results.

Non-GAAP operating earnings: operating earnings/(loss) excluding (1) LIFO charges/(credits), (2) surgical gown recall costs/(income), (3) state opioid assessment related to prior fiscal years, (4) restructuring and employee severance, (5) amortization and other acquisition-related costs, (6) impairments and (gain)/loss on disposal of assets, and (7) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net. 

Non-GAAP earnings before income taxes: earnings/(loss) before income taxes excluding (1) LIFO charges/(credits), (2) surgical gown recall costs/(income), (3) state opioid assessment related to prior fiscal years, (4) restructuring and employee severance, (5) amortization and other acquisition-related costs, (6) impairments and (gain)/loss on disposal of assets, (7) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (8) loss on early extinguishment of debt and (9) (gain)/loss on sale of equity interest in naviHealth. 

Non-GAAP net earnings attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc.: net earnings/(loss) attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc. excluding (1) LIFO charges/(credits), (2) surgical gown recall costs/(income), (3) state opioid assessment related to prior fiscal years, (4) restructuring and employee severance, (5) amortization and other acquisition-related costs, (6) impairments and (gain)/loss on disposal of assets, (7) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (8) loss on early extinguishment of debt and (9) (gain)/loss on sale of equity interest in naviHealth, each net of tax, and (10) transitional tax benefit, net. 

Non-GAAP effective tax rate: provision for/(benefit from) income taxes adjusted for (1) LIFO charges/(credits), (2) surgical gown recall costs/(income), (3) state opioid assessment related to prior fiscal years, (4) restructuring and employee severance, (5) amortization and other acquisition-related costs, (6) impairments and (gain)/loss on disposal of assets, (7) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (8) loss on early extinguishment of debt and (9) (gain)/loss on sale of equity interest in naviHealth, each net of tax, and (10) transitional tax benefit, net divided by (earnings before income taxes adjusted for the first nine items). 

 24Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc.: non-GAAP net earnings attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc. divided by diluted weighted-average shares outstanding. 

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K25

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1 Attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc.

2 For fiscal 2022 and 2020, GAAP diluted loss per share attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc. and the EPS impact from the GAAP to non-GAAP per share reconciling items are calculated using weighted averages of 279 and 293 million common shares, respectively, which exclude potentially dilutive securities from the denominator due to their anti-dilutive effects resulting from our GAAP net loss for the period. Fiscal 2022 and 2020 non-GAAP diluted EPS are calculated using weighted averages of 280 and 295 million common shares, respectively, which included potentially dilutive shares. 

3 Impairments and (gain)/loss on disposals of assets, net includes pre-tax goodwill impairment charges of $2.1 billion related to the Medical segment recorded during fiscal 2022. For fiscal 2022, the net tax benefit related to these charges is $150 million and is included in the annual effective tax rate. 

4 Litigation (recoveries)/charges, net includes a one-time contingent attorneys' fee of $18 million recorded during fiscal 2022 related to the finalization of the Settlement Agreement resulting in the settlement of the vast majority of opioid lawsuits filed by state and local governmental entities. Due to the unique nature and significance of the Settlement Agreement, and the one-time, contingent nature of the fee, this fee was included in litigation (recoveries)/charges, net.

5 Litigation (recoveries)/charges, net for fiscal 2022 does not include a $16 million judgement for lost profits related to an ordinary course intellectual property claim, which positively impacted Pharmaceutical segment profit.

 26Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

6 Litigation (recoveries)/charges, net includes pre-tax charges of $1.17 billion and $5.63 billion recorded in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, related to the opioid litigation. The net tax benefits associated with the opioid litigation charges were $228 million and $488 million for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, includes a tax benefit recorded during fiscal 2021 related to a net operating loss carryback. Our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary recorded a self-insurance pre-tax loss in its fiscal 2020 statutory financial statements primarily related to opioid litigation. This self-insurance pre-tax loss, which did not impact our pre-tax consolidated results, was deducted on our fiscal 2020 consolidated federal income tax return and contributed to a significant net operating loss for tax purposes. The net operating loss was carried back and adjusted our taxable income for fiscal 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 as permitted under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (“CARES”) Act. The total benefit from the net operating loss carryback was $424 million; however, for purposes of Non-GAAP financial measures, we allocated $389 million of the benefit to litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, which is excluded from non-GAAP measures, based on the relative amount of the self-insurance pre-tax loss related to opioid litigation claims versus separate tax adjustments. The tax benefit allocated to the separate tax adjustments of $35 million is included in non-GAAP measures.

7 Reflects the net transitional benefit from the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities partially offset by the repatriation tax on cash and earnings of foreign subsidiaries. See Note 8 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for more information.

The sum of the components and certain computations may reflect rounding adjustments.

We apply varying tax rates depending on the item's nature and tax jurisdiction where it is incurred.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K27

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk