ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

We are exposed to financial risk resulting from volatility in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. This risk is closely monitored and managed through the use of physical forward contracts (which are not considered derivatives), and financial derivative instruments including foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swap contracts and interest rate swaps. Financial derivatives are used expressly for hedging purposes and under no circumstances are they used for speculative purposes. When material, we adjust the estimated fair value of our derivative contracts for counterparty or our credit risk. None of our derivative instruments are subject to collateral requirements. Substantially all of our derivative contracts are subject to master netting arrangements, which provide us with the option to settle certain contracts on a net basis when they settle on the same day with the same currency. In addition, these arrangements provide for a net settlement of all contracts with a given counterparty in the event that the arrangement is terminated due to the occurrence of default or a termination event. 

We also enter into physical forward contracts with certain suppliers to purchase minimum volumes of commodities at contractually stated prices for various periods. These arrangements, as further described below, enable us to fix the prices of portions of our normal purchases of these commodities, which otherwise are subject to market volatility.

The following describes our risk exposures and provides the results of a sensitivity analysis performed at December 31, 2021. The sensitivity analysis assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk 

As a result of our international business presence, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks. We transact business in foreign currencies and, as a result, our income experiences some volatility related to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. To help manage our exposure to exchange rate volatility, we use foreign currency forward contracts on a regular basis to hedge forecasted intercompany and third-party sales and purchases denominated in non-functional currencies. Our foreign currency cash flow hedges generally mature within two years. These foreign currency forward contracts are designated and qualify as foreign currency cash flow hedges. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, there were no circumstances that resulted in the discontinuance of a foreign currency cash flow hedge. 

To minimize the income volatility resulting from the remeasurement of net monetary assets and payables denominated in a currency other than the functional currency, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts, which are considered economic hedges. The 

54
objective is to offset the gain or loss from remeasurement with the gain or loss from the fair market valuation of the forward contract. These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges. 

At December 31, 2021, the potential gain or loss in the fair value of our outstanding foreign currency contracts, assuming a hypothetical 10 percent fluctuation in the currencies of such contracts, would be approximately $103 million. The sensitivity analysis of the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates assumes the notional value to remain constant for the next 12 months. The analysis ignores the impact of foreign exchange movements on our competitive position and potential changes in sales levels. Any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by an inverse change in the value of the underlying hedged items. 

Interest Rate Risk

We are exposed to market risk from fluctuations in interest rates. We manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations through the use of interest rate swaps and interest rate locks. The objective of the swaps is to more effectively balance our borrowing costs and interest rate risk. See "Interest Rate Risk" section in Note 12, "DEBT," to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

At any time, a change in interest rates could have an adverse impact on the fair value of our portfolios. Assuming a hypothetical adverse movement in interest rates of one percentage point, the combined value of our interest rate derivatives portfolios would be reduced by $64 million, as calculated as of December 31, 2021. However, this does not take into consideration an offset in the underlying hedged items. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve.

Commodity Price Risk

We are exposed to fluctuations in commodity prices due to contractual agreements with component suppliers. In order to protect ourselves against future price volatility and, consequently, fluctuations in gross margins, we periodically enter into commodity swap and forward contracts with designated banks and other counterparties to fix the cost of certain raw material purchases with the objective of minimizing changes in inventory cost due to market price fluctuations. These commodity swaps are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. At December 31, 2021, realized and unrealized gains and losses related to these hedges were not material to our financial statements. We also enter into physical forward contracts, which qualify for the normal purchases scope exceptions and are treated as purchase commitments. 

We also limit our exposure to commodity price risk by entering into purchasing arrangements to fix the price of certain volumes of platinum and palladium expected to be used in our products. We enter into physical forward contracts with suppliers of platinum and palladium to purchase some volumes of the commodities at contractually stated prices for various periods, generally less than two years. These arrangements enable us to fix the prices of a portion of our purchases of these commodities, which otherwise are subject to market volatility. 

55
ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data