ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market Risk

The market risk inherent in our financial instruments represents the potential loss in fair value, earnings or cash flows, arising from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates. The Company manages these exposures through operating and financing activities and, when appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. The use of derivative financial instruments is in accordance with the Company's risk management policies, and we do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative or trading purposes.

The quantitative disclosures in the following discussion are based on quoted market prices obtained through independent pricing sources for the same or similar types of financial instruments, taking into consideration the underlying terms and maturities and theoretical pricing models. These quantitative disclosures do not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual results may differ from those estimates.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated contracts, denominated in a currency other than the entity’s functional currency, and from foreign-denominated revenues and expenses translated into U.S. dollars. The majority of the Company's purchases and sales involving international parties, excluding international consumer sales, are denominated in U.S. dollars and, therefore, our foreign currency exchange risk is limited. The Company is exposed to risk from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations resulting from its operating subsidiaries’ transactions denominated in foreign currencies. To mitigate such risk, certain subsidiaries enter into forward currency contracts. As of July 2, 2022 and July 3, 2021, forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges with a notional amount of $41.5 million and $61.4 million, respectively, were outstanding. As a result of the use of derivative instruments, we are exposed to the risk that counterparties to the derivative instruments will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, we only enter into derivative contracts with carefully selected financial institutions. The Company also reviews the creditworthiness of our counterparties on a regular basis. As a result of the above considerations, we do not believe that we are exposed to any undue concentration of counterparty credit risk associated with our derivative contracts as of July 2, 2022.

The Company is also exposed to transaction risk from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations with respect to various cross-currency intercompany loans, payables and receivables. This primarily includes exposure to exchange rate fluctuations in the Chinese Renminbi, the Japanese Yen and the Euro. To manage the exchange rate risk related to these balances, the Company enters into forward currency contracts. As of July 2, 2022 and July 3, 2021, the total notional values of outstanding forward foreign currency contracts related to these loans, payables and receivables were $274.1 million and $248.2 million, respectively.

The fair value of outstanding forward currency contracts included in current assets at July 2, 2022 and July 3, 2021 was $0.4 million and $0.3 million, respectively. The fair value of outstanding foreign currency contracts included in current liabilities at July 2, 2022 and July 3, 2021 was $3.2 million and $1.2 million, respectively. The fair value of these contracts is sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis of the effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the fair values of our derivative contracts was performed to assess the risk of loss. As of July 2, 2022, a 10% change in the value of the U.S. Dollar against the exchange rates for foreign currencies under contract would result in an immaterial impact on derivative contract fair values.

The Company is also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations with respects to net investment hedges. As of July 2, 2022, we have multiple fixed to fixed cross currency swap agreements with aggregate notional amounts of $1.20 billion to hedge our net investment in Euro-denominated subsidiaries and Japanese Yen-denominated subsidiaries against future volatility in the exchange rates between the United States dollar and their local currencies. The fair values of outstanding derivative contracts related to net investment hedges included in long-term assets and long-term liabilities at July 2, 2022 are $47.8 million and $44.0 million, respectively. Under the term of these contracts, we will exchange the semi-annual fixed rate payments on United States denominated debt for fixed rate payments of 2.4% to 2.7% in Euros and 0.6% to 1.3% in Japanese Yen. A 10% change in the value of the U.S. dollar against the exchange rates for currencies under contract as of July 2, 2022, would result in an immaterial impact on the net investment hedge derivative contract fair values. Refer to Note 10, "Derivative Investments and Hedging Activities," for additional information.

Interest Rate Risk

The Company is exposed to interest rate risk in relation to its $1.25 Billion Revolving Credit Facility and $500.0 Million Term Loan entered into under the credit agreement dated May 11, 2022, the Term Loan, the 2032 Senior Notes, 2027 Senior Notes, and 2025 Senior Notes (collectively the "Senior Notes") and investments.

Our exposure to changes in interest rates is primarily attributable to debt outstanding under the $1.25 Billion Revolving Credit Facility and $500.0 Million Term Loan (collectively, the "Credit Facilities"). Borrowings under the $1.25 Billion 

52

Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, (i) for borrowings in U.S. Dollars, either (a) an alternate base rate or (b) a term secured overnight financing rate, (ii) for borrowings in Euros, the Euro Interbank Offered Rate, (iii) for borrowings in Pounds Sterling, the Sterling Overnight Index Average Reference Rate and (iv) for borrowings in Japanese Yen, the Tokyo Interbank Offer Rate, plus, in each case, an applicable margin. The applicable margin will be adjusted by reference to a grid (the “Pricing Grid”) based on the ratio of (a) consolidated debt to (b) consolidated EBITDAR (the “Gross Leverage Ratio”). Borrowings under the Term Loan bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, either (i) an alternate base rate or (ii) a term secured overnight financing rate plus, in each case, an applicable margin. The applicable margin will be adjusted by reference to a pricing grid based on the Gross Leverage Ratio. A hypothetical 10% change in the Credit Facilities interest rate would have resulted in an immaterial change in interest expense in fiscal 2022. Furthermore, a prolonged disruption on our business resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic may impact our ability to satisfy the terms of our Credit Facilities, including our liquidity covenant.

The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates related to the fair value of the Senior Notes. At July 2, 2022, the fair value of the 2032 Senior Notes, 2027 Senior Notes and 2025 Senior Notes was approximately $409 million, $383 million and $304 million, respectively. The fair value of the 2027 Senior Notes and 2025 Senior Notes at July 2, 2022 reflects the impact of the $500 million cash tender offer completed during the second quarter of fiscal 2022. At July 3, 2021, the fair value of the 2027 Senior Notes, 2022 Senior Notes and 2025 Senior Notes was approximately $659 million, $407 million and $652 million, respectively. The 2022 Senior Notes were fully redeemed as of July 2, 2022. These fair values are based on external pricing data, including available quoted market prices of these instruments, and consideration of comparable debt instruments with similar interest rates and trading frequency, among other factors, and are classified as Level 2 measurements within the fair value hierarchy. The interest rate payable on the 2027 Senior Notes will be subject to adjustments from time to time if either Moody’s or S&P or a substitute rating agency (as defined in the Prospectus Supplement furnished with the SEC on June 7, 2017) downgrades (or downgrades and subsequently upgrades) the credit rating assigned to the respective Senior Notes of such series.

The Company’s investment portfolio is maintained in accordance with the Company’s investment policy, which defines our investment principles including credit quality standards and limits the credit exposure of any single issuer. The primary objective of our investment activities is the preservation of principal while maximizing interest income and minimizing risk. We do not hold any investments for trading purposes.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA