PART I

Item 1. Business

Unless otherwise indicated in this report "DaVita", "the Company" "we", "us", "our" and other similar terms refer to DaVita Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge through our website, located at http://www.davita.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC also maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov where these reports and other information about us can be obtained. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report.

Overview of DaVita Inc.

DaVita is a leading healthcare provider focused on transforming care delivery to improve quality of life for patients globally. We are one of the largest providers of kidney care services in the U.S. and have been a leader in clinical quality and innovation for over 20 years. DaVita is committed to bold, patient-centric care models, implementing the latest technologies and advancing integrated care offerings. Over the years, we have established a value-based culture with a philosophy of caring that is focused on both our patients and teammates. This culture and philosophy fuel our continuous drive toward achieving our mission "to be the provider, partner and employer of choice" and fulfilling our vision "to build the greatest healthcare community the world has ever seen".

The loss of kidney function is normally irreversible. Kidney failure is typically caused by Type I and Type II diabetes, hypertension, polycystic kidney disease, long-term autoimmune attack on the kidneys and prolonged urinary tract obstruction. End stage renal disease or end stage kidney disease (ESRD or ESKD) is the stage of advanced kidney impairment that requires continued dialysis treatments or a kidney transplant to sustain life. Dialysis is the removal of toxins, fluids and salt from the blood of patients by artificial means. Patients suffering from ESKD generally require dialysis at least three times a week for the rest of their lives or until they receive a kidney transplant. 

Our U.S. dialysis and related lab services (U.S. dialysis) business treats patients with chronic kidney failure, ESRD or ESKD, in the United States, and is our largest line of business. As of December 31, 2021, we provided dialysis and administrative services and related laboratory services throughout the U.S. via a network of 2,815 outpatient dialysis centers and home programs in 46 states and the District of Columbia, serving a total of approximately 203,100 patients, and have contracts to provide hospital inpatient dialysis services in approximately 850 hospitals. Our robust platform to deliver kidney care services also includes established nephrology and payor relationships. In addition, as of December 31, 2021, our international operations provided dialysis and administrative services to a total of 339 outpatient dialysis centers located in ten countries outside of the U.S., serving approximately 39,900 patients. Finally, our U.S ancillary services and strategic initiatives provided integrated care and disease management services to 16,000 patients in risk-based integrated care arrangements and to an additional 7,000 patients in other integrated care arrangements as of December 31, 2021. Most of the patients served by our integrated care business are also our dialysis patients. We refer to our U.S. ancillary services and strategic initiatives and our international operations as, collectively, our "ancillary services". We also have a separate corporate administrative support function that supports our U.S. dialysis business and these ancillary services. 

Our patient-centric care model leverages our platform of kidney care services to maximize patient choice in both models and modalities of care. We believe that the flexibility we offer coupled with a focus on comprehensive kidney care supports our commitments to help improve clinical outcomes and quality of life for our patients. According to the most recently published data, for eight consecutive years, we are an industry leader in the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services’ (CMS) Quality Incentive Program (QIP), which promotes high quality services in outpatient dialysis facilities treating patients with ESKD. In addition, according to the most recently published data, for seven consecutive years, we are also an industry leader under CMS’ Five-Star Quality Rating system, which rates eligible dialysis centers based on the quality of outcomes to help patients, their families, and caregivers make more informed decisions about where patients receive care. According to the most recently collected data from Nephrology News and Issues, we are an industry leader for the total number of patients in home-based dialysis services.

Our quality clinical outcomes are driven by our experienced and knowledgeable teammates. We employ registered nurses, licensed practical or vocational nurses, patient care technicians, social workers, registered dietitians, biomedical technicians and other administrative and support teammates who strive to achieve superior clinical outcomes at our dialysis facilities. In addition to our teammates at our dialysis facilities, as of December 31, 2021, our domestic Chief Medical Officer lead a team of 24 senior nephrologists in our physician leadership team as part of our domestic Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO). Our international Chief Medical Officer lead a team of 11 senior nephrologists in our physician leadership team as part of our international OCMO as of December 31, 2021. Our OCMO teammates represent a variety of academic, 

2

clinical practice, and clinical research backgrounds. We also have a Physician Council that serves as an advisory body to senior management, which was composed of eight physicians with extensive experience in clinical practice and seven Group Medical Directors as of December 31, 2021.

On June 19, 2019, we completed the sale of our prior DaVita Medical Group (DMG) business, a patient and physician-focused integrated healthcare delivery and management company, to Collaborative Care Holdings, LLC, a subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group Inc. As a result, the DMG business has been classified as discontinued operations and its results of operations are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements included in this report. 

For financial information about DMG, see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report.

COVID-19 and its impact on our business 

As a caregiving organization, we continue to be impacted by the effects of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. DaVita’s caregiving teammates continue to be on the front lines of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic providing critical, life-sustaining care for our patients. We continue to closely monitor the impact on our business of the pandemic and the resulting economic and political environment, including the various impacts on our patients, teammates, physician partners, suppliers, vendors and business partners. 

During this time of great and continued challenge, our top priorities continue to be the health, safety and well-being of our patients, teammates and physician partners and helping to ensure that our patients have the ability to maintain continuity of care throughout this crisis, whether in the hospital, outpatient or home setting. To that end, we have dedicated and continue to dedicate substantial resources in response to COVID-19, including the implementation of additional protocols and initiatives to help safely maintain continuity of care for our patients and help protect our caregivers. 

We believe the ultimate impact of this public health crisis on the Company will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and difficult to predict. For additional discussion of the COVID-19 pandemic and our response, including its impact on us and related risks and uncertainties, please see the discussion below under the heading "—Human Capital Management", the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading "We face various risks related to the dynamic and evolving novel coronavirus pandemic, many of which may have a material adverse impact on us," and the discussion under the heading "COVID-19 and its impact on our business" in Part II, Item 7. "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

U.S. dialysis business

Our U.S. dialysis business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services for patients suffering from ESKD. As of December 31, 2021, we provided dialysis and administrative services in the U.S. through a network of 2,815 outpatient dialysis centers in 46 states and the District of Columbia, serving a total of approximately 203,100 patients. We also have contracts to provide hospital inpatient dialysis services in approximately 850 hospitals and related laboratory services throughout the U.S. 

According to the United States Renal Data System (USRDS), there were over 569,000 ESKD dialysis patients in the U.S. in 2019. Based on the most recent 2021 annual data report from the USRDS, the underlying ESKD dialysis patient population has grown at an approximate compound rate of 3.5% from 2009 to 2019 and a compound rate of 3.1% from 2014 to 2019, which suggests that the rate of growth of the ESKD patient population is declining relative to long term trends. A number of factors may impact ESKD growth rates, including, among others, the aging of the U.S. population, transplant rates, incidence rates for diseases that cause kidney failure such as diabetes and hypertension, mortality rates for dialysis patients and growth rates of minority populations with higher than average incidence rates of ESKD. Certain of these factors, in particular mortality rates for dialysis patients, have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Treatment options for ESKD

Treatment options for ESKD are dialysis and kidney transplantation.

Dialysis options

•Hemodialysis

Hemodialysis, the most common form of ESKD treatment, is usually performed at a freestanding outpatient dialysis center, at a hospital-based outpatient center, or at the patient’s home. The hemodialysis machine uses an artificial kidney, called a dialyzer, to remove toxins, fluids and salt from the patient’s blood. The dialysis process occurs across a semi-permeable membrane that divides the dialyzer into two distinct chambers. While blood is circulated through one chamber, a pre-mixed 

3

fluid is circulated through the other chamber. The toxins, salt and excess fluids from the blood cross the membrane into the fluid, allowing cleansed blood to return back into the patient’s body. Each hemodialysis treatment that occurs in the outpatient dialysis centers typically lasts approximately three and one-half hours and is usually performed three times per week.

Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services are required for patients with acute kidney failure primarily resulting from trauma, patients in early stages of ESKD and ESKD patients who require hospitalization for other reasons. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis is generally performed at the patient’s bedside or in a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed.

Some ESKD patients who are healthier and more independent may perform hemodialysis in their home or residence through the use of a hemodialysis machine designed specifically for home therapy that is portable, smaller and easier to use. Patients receive training, support and monitoring from registered nurses, usually in our outpatient dialysis centers, in connection with their home hemodialysis treatment. Home hemodialysis is typically performed with greater frequency than dialysis treatments performed in outpatient dialysis centers and on varying schedules.

•Peritoneal dialysis

Peritoneal dialysis uses the patient’s peritoneal or abdominal cavity to eliminate fluid and toxins and is typically performed at home. The most common methods of peritoneal dialysis are continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis (CCPD). Because it does not involve going to an outpatient dialysis center three times a week for treatment, peritoneal dialysis is generally an alternative to hemodialysis for patients who are healthier, more independent and desire more flexibility in their lifestyle. 

CAPD introduces dialysis solution into the patient’s peritoneal cavity through a surgically placed catheter. Toxins in the blood continuously cross the peritoneal membrane into the dialysis solution. After several hours, the patient drains the used dialysis solution and replaces it with fresh solution. This procedure is usually repeated four times per day.

CCPD is performed in a manner similar to CAPD, but uses a mechanical device to cycle dialysis solution through the patient’s peritoneal cavity while the patient is sleeping or at rest.

Kidney transplantation

Although kidney transplantation, when successful, is generally the most desirable form of therapeutic intervention, the shortage of suitable donors, side effects of immunosuppressive pharmaceuticals given to transplant recipients and dangers associated with transplant surgery for some patient populations have generally limited the use of this treatment option. An executive order signed in July 2019 (the 2019 Executive Order) directed HHS to develop policies addressing, among other things, the goal of making more kidneys available for transplant. As directed by the 2019 Executive Order, the CMS, through its Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMMI), subsequently released the framework for certain proposed voluntary payment models that would adjust payment incentives to encourage kidney transplants. For more information regarding the 2019 Executive Order and these payment models, please see the discussion below under the heading "—Integrated Kidney Care and Medicare and Medicaid program reforms."

U.S. dialysis services we provide

Outpatient hemodialysis services 

As a condition of our enrollment in Medicare for the provision of dialysis services, we contract with a nephrologist or a group of associated nephrologists to provide medical director services at each of our dialysis centers. In addition, other nephrologists may apply for practice privileges to treat their patients at our centers. Each center has an administrator, typically a registered nurse, who supervises the day-to-day operations of the center and its staff. The staff of each center typically consists of registered nurses, licensed practical or vocational nurses, patient care technicians, a social worker, a registered dietician, biomedical technician support and other administrative and support personnel.

Our total patient turnover at centers we consolidate, which is based upon all causes, averaged approximately 27% in 2021 and 25% in 2020. The overall number of patients to whom we provided services in the U.S. in 2021 decreased by approximately 0.5% from 2020, primarily due to an increase in mortality rates, which have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. This was partially offset by new dialysis patients who started treating at our centers acquired during the year.

Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services 

As of December 31, 2021, we have contracts to provide hospital inpatient hemodialysis services, excluding physician services, to patients in approximately 850 hospitals throughout the U.S. We render these services based on a contracted per-

4

treatment fee that is individually negotiated with each hospital. When a hospital requests our services, we typically administer the dialysis treatment at the patient’s bedside or in a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed. 

Home-based dialysis services 

Home-based dialysis services includes home hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis. Many of our outpatient dialysis centers offer certain support services for dialysis patients who prefer and are able to perform either home hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis in their homes. Home-based hemodialysis support services consist of providing equipment and supplies, training, patient monitoring, on-call support services and follow-up assistance. Registered nurses train patients and their families or other caregivers to perform either home hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. The 2019 Executive Order and related HHS guidance described above also included a stated goal of increasing the relative number of new ESKD patients that receive dialysis at home.

According to the most recent 2021 annual data report from the USRDS, in 2019 approximately 13% of ESKD dialysis patients in the U.S. perform home-based dialysis.

Treatments and revenues by modality:

The following graph summarizes our U.S. dialysis treatments by modality and U.S. dialysis patient services revenues by modality for the year ended December 31, 2021.

Other

ESKD laboratory services 

We operate a separately licensed and highly automated clinical laboratory which specializes in ESKD patient testing. This specialized laboratory provides routine laboratory tests for dialysis and other physician-prescribed laboratory tests for ESKD patients which are integral components of the services we provide. Our laboratory provides these tests predominantly for our ESKD patients throughout the U.S. These tests are performed to monitor a patient’s ESKD condition, including the adequacy of dialysis, as well as other medical conditions of the patient. Our laboratory utilizes information systems which provide information to certain members of the dialysis centers’ staff and medical directors regarding critical outcome indicators. In 2021, our laboratory performed COVID-19 testing for our patients and teammates. 

Management services 

We currently operate or provide management and administrative services pursuant to management and administrative services agreements to 57 outpatient dialysis centers located in the U.S. in which we either own a noncontrolling interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties. Management fees are established by contract and are recognized as earned typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash collections generated by the outpatient dialysis centers.

Sources of revenue—concentrations and risks

Our U.S. dialysis revenues represent approximately 91% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021. Our U.S. dialysis revenues are derived primarily from our core business of providing dialysis services and related laboratory services and, to a lesser extent, the administration of pharmaceuticals and management fees generated from providing management and administrative services to certain outpatient dialysis centers, as discussed above.

The sources of our U.S. dialysis revenues are principally from government-based programs, including Medicare and Medicare Advantage plans, Medicaid and managed Medicaid plans and commercial insurance plans. The following table 

5

summarizes our U.S. dialysis revenues by payor source for U.S. dialysis patient services revenues the year ended December 31, 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Medicare revenue

Medicare ESRD revenue

Since 1972, the federal government has provided healthcare coverage for ESRD patients under the Medicare ESRD program regardless of age or financial circumstances. ESRD is the first and only disease state eligible for Medicare coverage both for dialysis and dialysis-related services and for all benefits available under the Medicare program. 

Government dialysis related payment rates in the U.S. are principally determined by federal Medicare and state Medicaid policy. For patients with Medicare coverage, all ESRD payments for dialysis treatments are made under a single bundled payment rate which provides a fixed payment rate to encompass all goods and services provided during the dialysis treatment that are related to the dialysis treatment, including certain pharmaceuticals, such as erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs), calcimimetics, vitamin D analogs and iron supplements, irrespective of the level of pharmaceuticals administered to the patient or additional services performed. Most lab services are also included in the bundled payment.

Although Medicare reimbursement limits the allowable charge per treatment, it provides industry participants with a relatively predictable and recurring revenue stream for dialysis services provided to patients without commercial insurance. For the year ended December 31, 2021, approximately 90% of our total dialysis patients were covered under some form of government-based program, with approximately 75% of our dialysis patients covered under Medicare and Medicare Advantage plans.

Under this ESRD Prospective Payment System (PPS), the bundled payments to a dialysis facility may be reduced by as much as 2% based on the facility’s performance in specified quality measures set annually by CMS through its QIP. CMS established QIP through the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 to promote high quality services in outpatient dialysis facilities treating patients with ESRD. QIP associates a portion of Medicare reimbursement directly with a facility’s performance on quality of care measures. Reductions in Medicare reimbursement result when a facility’s overall score on applicable measures does not meet established standards. Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, CMS is not applying QIP payment reductions to facilities in 2022. The bundled payment rate is also adjusted for certain patient characteristics, a geographic usage index and certain other factors.

Uncertainty about future payment rates remains a material risk to our business, as well as the potential implementation of or changes in coverage determinations or other rules or regulations by CMS or Medicare Administrative Contractors that may impact reimbursement. An important provision in the Medicare ESRD statute is an annual adjustment, or market basket update, to the ESRD PPS base rate. Absent action by Congress, the ESRD PPS base rate is automatically updated annually by a formulaic inflation adjustment. 

On September 18, 2020, pursuant to the 2019 Executive Order, CMS, through CMMI, published the final ESRD Treatment Choices mandatory payment model (ETC). The ETC launched on January 1, 2021, administered through CMMI in approximately 20% of our dialysis clinics across the country. There was no material impact to us during 2021 related to the ETC. 

On October 29, 2021, CMS issued a final rule to update the ESRD PPS payment rate and policies. Among other things, the rule updates payment rates under the ESRD PPS for renal dialysis services furnished to beneficiaries on or after January 1, 2022, finalizes updates to the Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) dialysis payment rate for dialysis services furnished by ESRD facilities and finalizes modifications to the ETC model policies. CMS estimates the final rule will affect ESRD facilities' average reimbursement by a productivity-adjusted market basket increase of 1.9% in 2022.

As a result of the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA) and subsequent activity in Congress, a $1.2 trillion sequester (across-the-board spending cuts) in discretionary programs took effect in 2013 reducing Medicare payments by 2%, which was 

6

subsequently extended through fiscal year 2027. Federal COVID-19 relief legislation suspended the 2% Medicare sequestration from May 1, 2020 through December 31, 2021. The Protecting Medicare and American Farmers from Sequester Cuts Act, signed into law on December 10, 2021, extended the suspension of the 2% Medicare sequestration from December 31, 2021 through March 31, 2022, with 1% Medicare sequestration beginning April 1, 2022 through June 30, 2022 and 2% Medicare sequestration beginning July 1, 2022. In the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, our revenues significantly increased due to this suspension and we expect that this suspension will continue to significantly increase our revenues while it remains in effect. When the temporary suspension is no longer in effect, we expect that the across-the-board spending cuts of the BCA will, once again, adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

ESRD patients receiving dialysis services become eligible for primary Medicare coverage at various times, depending on their age or disability status, as well as whether they are covered by a commercial insurance plan. Generally, for a patient not covered by a commercial insurance plan, Medicare becomes the primary payor for ESRD patients receiving dialysis services either immediately or after a three-month waiting period. For a patient covered by a commercial insurance plan, Medicare generally becomes the primary payor after 33 months, which includes the three-month waiting period, or earlier if the patient’s commercial insurance plan coverage terminates. When Medicare becomes the primary payor, the payment rates we receive for that patient shift from the commercial insurance plan rates to Medicare payment rates, which are on average significantly lower than commercial insurance rates.

Medicare pays 80% of the amount set by the Medicare system for each covered dialysis treatment. The patient is responsible for the remaining 20%. In most cases, a secondary payor, such as Medicare supplemental insurance, a state Medicaid program or a commercial health plan, covers all or part of these balances. Some patients who do not qualify for Medicaid, but otherwise cannot afford secondary insurance in the form of a Medicare Supplement Plan, can apply for premium payment assistance from charitable organizations to obtain secondary coverage. If a patient does not have secondary insurance coverage, we are generally unsuccessful in our efforts to collect from the patient the remaining 20% portion of the ESRD composite rate that Medicare does not pay. However, we are able to recover some portion of this unpaid patient balance from Medicare through an established cost reporting process by identifying these Medicare bad debts on each center’s Medicare cost report.

Medicare Advantage revenue

Medicare Advantage (MA, managed Medicare or Medicare Part C) plans are offered by private health insurers who contract with CMS to provide their members with Medicare Part A, Part B and/or Part D benefits. These MA plans include health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations, private fee-for-service (FFS) organizations, special needs plans (SNPs) or Medicare medical savings account plans. The 21st Century Cures Act (the Cures Act) included a provision that, effective January 1, 2021, allows Medicare-eligible beneficiaries with ESRD to choose coverage under an MA plan. Prior to the Cures Act, MA plans were only available to ESRD patients if the patient was remaining on an MA plan that they had enrolled in prior to being diagnosed with ESRD, or in certain other limited situations such as a SNP. As a result, this provision under the Cures Act has broadened access for Medicare ESRD patients to certain enhanced benefits offered by MA plans. MA plans usually provide reimbursement to us at a negotiated rate that is generally higher than Medicare FFS rates.

Medicaid revenue

Medicaid programs are state-administered programs partially funded by the federal government. These programs are intended to provide health coverage for patients whose income and assets fall below state-defined levels and who are otherwise uninsured. These programs also serve as supplemental insurance programs for co-insurance payments due from Medicaid-eligible patients with primary coverage under the Medicare program. Some Medicaid programs also pay for additional services, including some oral medications that are not covered by Medicare. We are enrolled in the Medicaid programs in the states in which we conduct our business.

Commercial revenue

Before a patient becomes eligible to elect to have Medicare as their primary payor for dialysis services, a patient’s commercial insurance plan, if any, is generally responsible for payment of such dialysis services for up to the first 33 months, as discussed above. Although commercial payment rates vary, average commercial payment rates established under commercial contracts are generally significantly higher than Medicare rates. The payments we receive from commercial payors generate nearly all of our profits and all of our non-hospital dialysis profits come from commercial payors. Payment methods from commercial payors can include a single lump-sum per treatment, referred to as bundled rates, or in other cases separate payments for dialysis treatments and pharmaceuticals, if used as part of the treatment, referred to as FFS rates. Commercial payment rates are the result of negotiations between us and insurers or third-party administrators. Our out-of-network payment rates are on average higher than in-network commercial contract payment rates. Some of our commercial contracts pay us under a single bundled payment rate for all dialysis services provided to covered patients. However, some of our commercial contracts 

7

also pay us for certain other services and pharmaceuticals in addition to the bundled payment. Our commercial contracts typically contain annual price escalator provisions. 

Approximately 25% of our U.S. dialysis patient services revenues and approximately 10% of our U.S. dialysis patients are associated with non-hospital commercial payors for the year ended December 31, 2021. Non-hospital commercial patients as a percentage of our total U.S. dialysis patients for 2021 were relatively flat compared to 2020. Less than 1% of our U.S. dialysis revenues are due directly from patients. No single commercial payor accounted for more than 10% of total U.S. dialysis revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for disclosure on our concentration related to our commercial payors on a total consolidated revenue basis.

Both the number of our patients under commercial plans and the rates under these commercial plans are subject to change based on a number of factors. For additional detail on these factors and other risks associated with on our commercial revenue, see the risk factors in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the headings "Our business is subject to a complex series of governmental laws, regulations and requirements and any failure to adhere to those requirements, or any changes in those requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, could materially harm our stock price, and in some circumstances, could materially harm our reputation"; "Changes in federal and state healthcare legislation or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows"; "If the number or percentage of patients with higher-paying commercial insurance declines, if the average rates that commercial payors pay us decline, if patients in commercial plans are subject to restriction in plan designs, or if we are unable to maintain contracts with payors with competitive terms, including, without limitation, reimbursement rates, scope and duration of coverage and in-network benefits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows"; and "We face various risks related to the dynamic and evolving novel coronavirus pandemic, many of which may have a material adverse impact on us." 

Revenue from other pharmaceuticals

Effective January 1, 2021, both oral and intravenous forms of calcimimetics, a drug class taken by many patients with ESRD to treat mineral bone disorder, were added to the ESRD PPS bundled payment, and as a result we expect our operating income from calcimimetics to be more stable in the future as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 under the transitional drug add-on payment adjustment (TDAPA) model. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the oral and intravenous forms of calcimimetics were separately reimbursed through a TDAPA model based on a pass-through rate of the average sales price plus 0%, before sequestration.

Physician relationships

Joint venture partners

We own and operate certain of our dialysis centers through entities that are structured as joint ventures. We generally hold controlling interests in these joint ventures, with nephrologists, hospitals, management services organizations, and/or other healthcare providers holding minority equity interests. These joint ventures are typically formed as limited liability companies. For the year ended December 31, 2021, revenues from joint ventures in which we have a controlling interest represented approximately 28% of our U.S. dialysis revenues. We expect to continue to enter into new U.S. dialysis-related joint ventures in the ordinary course of business.

Community physicians

An ESKD patient generally seeks treatment or support for their home treatment at an outpatient dialysis center near their home where their treating nephrologist has practice privileges. Our relationships with local nephrologists and our ability to provide quality dialysis services and to meet the needs of their patients are key factors in the success of our dialysis operations. Over 5,400 nephrologists currently refer patients to our outpatient dialysis centers. 

Medical directors

Participation in the Medicare ESRD program requires that dialysis services at an outpatient dialysis center be under the general supervision of a medical director. Per these requirements, this individual is usually a board certified nephrologist. We engage physicians or groups of physicians to serve as medical directors for each of our outpatient dialysis centers. At some outpatient dialysis centers, we also separately contract with one or more other physicians or groups to serve as assistant or associate medical directors over other modalities such as home dialysis. We have over 1,000 individual physicians and physician groups under contract to provide medical director services.

Medical directors for our dialysis centers enter into written contracts with us that specify their duties and fix their compensation generally for periods of ten years. The compensation of our medical directors is the result of arm’s length 

8

negotiations, consistent with fair market value, and generally depends upon an analysis of various factors such as the physician’s duties, responsibilities, professional qualifications and experience, as well as the time and effort required to provide such services.

Our medical director contracts and joint venture operating agreements generally include covenants not to compete or own interests in dialysis centers operated by other providers within a defined geographic area for various time periods, as applicable. These non-compete agreements do not restrict or limit the physicians from practicing medicine or prohibit the physicians from referring patients to any outpatient dialysis center, including dialysis centers operated by other providers. 

Location of our U.S. dialysis centers

We operated 2,815 outpatient dialysis centers in the U.S. as of December 31, 2021 and 2,758 of these centers are consolidated in our financial statements. Of the remaining 57 nonconsolidated U.S. outpatient dialysis centers, we own a noncontrolling interest in 55 centers and provide management and administrative services to two centers that are wholly-owned by third parties. The locations of the 2,758 U.S. outpatient dialysis centers consolidated in our financial statements at December 31, 2021, were as follows:

Ancillary services, including our international operations

 Our ancillary services relate primarily to our core business of providing kidney care services. As of December 31, 2021, these consisted primarily of our integrated kidney care services, our physician services supporting integrated kidney care and our kidney care initiatives outside of dialysis, our clinical research programs, and our transplant software business as well as our international operations.

U.S. Ancillary services

We have made and continue to make investments in building our integrated care capabilities, including the operation of certain strategic business initiatives that are intended to integrate care among healthcare participants across the renal care continuum from CKD to ESKD to kidney transplant. Through improved technology and data sharing, as well as an increasing focus on value-based contracting and care, these initiatives seek to bring together physicians, nurses, dieticians, pharmacists, hospitals, dialysis clinics, transplant centers and payors with a view towards improving clinical outcomes for our patients and reducing the overall cost of comprehensive kidney care.

•Integrated Kidney Care services. VillageHealth DM, LLC, also doing business as DaVita Integrated Kidney Care (DaVita IKC), provides advanced integrated care management services to health plans and government programs for members/beneficiaries diagnosed with ESKD, CKD and/or poly-comorbid conditions. Through a combination of 

9

health monitoring, clinical coordination, innovative interventions, predictive analytics, medical claims analysis and information technology, we endeavor to assist our health plan and government program customers and patients in obtaining superior renal healthcare and improved clinical outcomes, as well as helping to reduce overall medical costs. Integrated kidney care management revenues from commercial and Medicare Advantage insurers can be based upon either an established contract fee recognized as earned for services provided over the contract period, or related to the operation of risk-based and value-based programs, including shared savings, pay for performance, and capitation contracts. DaVita IKC also contracts with payors to operate Medicare Advantage ESKD special needs plans to provide ESKD patients full service healthcare. DaVita IKC supported our ESKD seamless care organizations (ESCO) joint venture programs until their completion in 2021, and DaVita IKC has commenced participation in certain of the payment models administered by CMMI. As further described below under the heading "—Government regulation—CMMI Payment Models", the Company has invested resources, and expects to continue to invest substantial resources in these models as part of the Company's overall plan to grow its integrated kidney care business and value-based care initiatives. See Note 1, Other revenue, in the Company's consolidated financial statements for more information on how the Company accounts for its integrated care arrangements.

The Company is also developing, and has entered into, various forms of technology-based, administrative, financial and other collaboration and incentive arrangements with physician partners and other providers in support of our innovative, developing and expanding integrated kidney care programs and arrangements.

•Physician services. Nephrology Practice Solutions (NPS) is an independent business that partners with physicians committed to providing outstanding clinical and integrated care to patients. NPS provides nephrologist recruitment and staffing services in select markets which are billed on a per search basis. NPS also offers physician practice management services to nephrologists under administrative services agreements. These services include physician practice management, billing and collections, credentialing, coding and other support services that enable physician practices to increase efficiency and manage their administrative needs. Additionally, NPS owns and operates nephrology practices in multiple states. Fees generated from these services are recognized as earned typically based upon flat fees or cash collections generated by the physician practice.

•Clinical research programs. DaVita Clinical Research (DCR) is a provider-based specialty clinical research organization with a full spectrum of services for clinical drug research and device development. DCR uses its extensive, applied database and real-world healthcare experience to assist in the design, recruitment and completion of retrospective and prospective pragmatic and clinical trials. Revenues are based upon an established fee per study, as determined by contract with drug companies and other sponsors and are recognized as earned according to the contract terms.

•Transplant software business. DaVita's new transplant software business, MedSleuth, which was acquired on December 31, 2021, works with transplant centers across the U.S. to provide greater connectivity among transplant candidates, transplant centers, physicians and care teams to help improve the experience and outcomes for kidney and liver transplant patients.

For additional discussion of our ancillary services, see Part II, Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 

International dialysis operations

As of December 31, 2021, we operated or provided administrative services to a total of 339 outpatient dialysis centers, which includes consolidated and nonconsolidated centers located in ten countries outside of the U.S., serving approximately 39,900 patients. Our international dialysis operations have continued to grow steadily and expand as a result of acquiring and developing outpatient dialysis centers in various strategic markets. Our international operations are included in our ancillary services. 

10

As of December 31, 2021, the locations of our international outpatient dialysis centers were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes centers that are operated or managed by our Asia Pacific joint venture (APAC JV).

Corporate administrative support

Corporate administrative support consists primarily of labor, benefits and long-term incentive compensation costs and professional fees for departments which provide support to all of our different operating lines of business. These expenses are included in our consolidated general and administrative expenses.

Government regulation

We operate in a complex regulatory environment with an extensive and evolving set of federal, state and local governmental laws, regulations and other requirements. These laws, regulations and other requirements are promulgated and overseen by a number of different legislative, regulatory, administrative and quasi-regulatory bodies, each of which may have varying interpretations, judgments or related guidance. As such, we utilize considerable resources on an ongoing basis to monitor, assess and respond to applicable legislative, regulatory and administrative requirements, but there is no guarantee that we will be successful in our efforts to adhere to all of these requirements. Additional discussion on certain of these laws, regulations and other requirements is set forth below in this section.

If any of our personnel, representatives or operations are alleged to have violated these or other laws, regulations or requirements, we could experience material harm to our reputation and stock price, and it could impact our relationships and/or contracts related to our business, among other things. If any of our personnel, representatives, or operations are found to violate these or other laws, regulations or requirements, we could suffer additional severe consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, including, among others:

•Loss of required certifications, suspension or exclusion from or termination of our participation in government programs (including, without limitation, Medicare, Medicaid and CMMI demonstration programs);

•Refunds of amounts received in violation of law or applicable payment program requirements dating back to the applicable statute of limitation periods;

•Loss of licenses required to operate healthcare facilities or administer pharmaceuticals in the states in which we operate;

•Reductions in payment rates or coverage for dialysis and ancillary services and pharmaceuticals;

•Criminal or civil liability, fines, damages or monetary penalties;

•Imposition of corporate integrity agreements, corrective action plans or consent agreements;

•Enforcement actions, investigations, or audits by governmental agencies and/or state law claims for monetary damages by patients who believe their protected health information (PHI) has been used, disclosed or not properly safeguarded in violation of federal or state patient privacy laws, including, among others, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and the Privacy Act of 1974; 

•Enforcement actions, investigations or audits by government agencies and/or initiated by qui tam relators related to interoperability and related data sharing and access requirements and regulations; 

11

•Mandated changes to our practices or procedures that significantly increase operating expenses that could subject us to ongoing audits and reporting requirements as well as increased scrutiny of our billing and business practices, which could lead to potential fines, among other things;

•Termination of various relationships and/or contracts related to our business, such as joint venture arrangements, medical director agreements, hospital services and skilled nursing home agreements, real estate leases, value based arrangements, clinical incentive programs, payor contracts and consulting or participating provider agreements with physicians, among others; and

•Harm to our reputation which could negatively impact our business relationships and stock price, our ability to attract and retain patients, physicians and teammates, our ability to obtain financing and our access to new business opportunities, among other things.

We expect that our industry will continue to be subject to extensive and complex regulation, the scope and effect of which are difficult to predict. We are currently subject to various legal proceedings, such as lawsuits, investigations, audits and inquiries by various government and regulatory agencies, as further described in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements, and our operations and activities could be reviewed or challenged by regulatory authorities at any time in the future. For additional detail on risks related to each of the foregoing, see the discussion in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the headings, "Our business is subject to a complex set of governmental laws, regulations and other requirements and any failure to adhere to those requirements, or any changes in those requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, could materially harm stock price, and in some circumstances, could materially harm our reputation;" and "We are, and may in the future be, a party to various lawsuits, demands, claims, qui tam suits, governmental investigations and audits and other legal matters, any of which could result in, among other things, substantial financial penalties or awards against us, mandated refunds, substantial payments made by us, required changes to our business practices, exclusion from future participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other healthcare programs and possible criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation and stock price."

Licensure and Certification

Our dialysis centers are certified by CMS, as required for the receipt of Medicare payments. Certain of our payor contracts also condition payment on Medicare certification. In some states, our outpatient dialysis centers also are required to secure additional state licenses and permits. Governmental authorities, primarily state departments of health, periodically inspect our centers to determine if we satisfy applicable federal and state standards and requirements, including the conditions for coverage in the Medicare ESRD program.

We have experienced some delays in obtaining Medicare certifications from CMS, though recent changes by CMS in the prioritizing of dialysis providers as well as legislation allowing private entities to perform initial dialysis facility surveys for certification has helped to decrease or limit certain delays.

In addition, in September 2019, CMS finalized updates to the Provider Enrollment Rule creating onerous disclosure obligations for all providers enrolling in Medicare, Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Plan (CHIP). The final rule provides CMS with stronger revocation authority, increases the bar for re-enrollment, and permits CMS to impose a Medicare reapplication bar where a prospective provider's Medicare enrollment application is denied because the provider submitted incomplete, false, or misleading information for providers who are terminated from the Medicare program. CMS may also deny enrollment to providers who have affiliations with other providers that CMS has determined pose undue risk of fraud, waste or abuse. If we fail to comply with these and other applicable requirements on our licensure and certification programs, particularly in light of increased penalties that include a 10-year bar to Medicare re-enrollment, under certain circumstances it could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and reputation.

Federal Anti-Kickback Statute

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, or order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid.

Federal criminal penalties for the violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include imprisonment, fines and exclusion of the provider from future participation in the federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute are punishable by imprisonment for up to ten years and statutory fines of up to $100,000 or both. Larger criminal fines can be imposed under the provisions of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the 

12

Alternate Fines Statute. Individuals and entities convicted of violating the federal Anti-Kickback Statute are subject to mandatory exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs for a minimum of five years. Civil penalties for violation of this law include statutory amounts of up to $100,000 (adjusted for inflation) in monetary penalties per violation, assessments of up to three times the total payments between the parties to the arrangement, and permissive exclusion from participation in the federal healthcare programs or suspension from future participation in Medicare and Medicaid. The ACA amended the federal Anti-Kickback Statute to clarify that the defendant may not need to have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or have the specific intent to violate it. In addition, the ACA amended the federal Anti-Kickback Statute to provide that any claims for items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute are considered false or fraudulent for purposes of the False Claims Act (FCA) and can result in treble damages and other penalties under the FCA.

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute includes statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors that protect certain arrangements. Business transactions and arrangements that are structured fully within an applicable safe harbor do not violate the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. When an arrangement is not structured fully within a safe harbor, the arrangement must be evaluated on a case-by-case basis in light of the parties’ intent and the arrangement’s potential for abuse, and may be subject to greater scrutiny by enforcement agencies.

On December 2, 2020, HHS' Office of Inspector General (OIG) and CMS released a final rule implementing modifications to the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and Civil Monetary Penalties Statute that are intended to promote value-based and coordinated care arrangements as well as reduce other regulatory burdens. The changes implemented by the final rules went into effect on January 19, 2021.

In the ordinary course of our business operations, DaVita and its ancillary businesses and subsidiaries enter into numerous arrangements with physicians and other potential referral sources, that potentially implicate the Anti-Kickback Statute. Examples of such arrangements include, among other things, medical director agreements, joint ventures, leases and subleases with entities in which physicians, hospitals or medical groups hold ownership interests, consulting agreements, hospital services agreements, discharge planning services agreements, acute dialysis services agreements, value based care arrangements, employment and coverage agreements, and incentive performance arrangements. In addition, some referring physicians may own our common stock in reliance on the Anti-Kickback Statute safe harbor for investment interests in large publicly traded companies. Furthermore, our dialysis centers and subsidiaries sometimes enter into certain rebate, pricing, or other contracts to acquire certain discounted items and services that may be reimbursed by a federal healthcare program.

Agreements do not need to fit within a relevant federal Anti-Kickback Statute safe harbor provision to be permissible; however, we generally endeavor to structure our arrangements within applicable safe harbors. Some of our arrangements are not structured fully within a safe harbor. 

If any of our business transactions or arrangements, including but not limited to those described above, were found to violate the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, we, among other things, could face criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other state and federal healthcare programs. Any findings that we have violated these laws could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation and stock price.

Stark Law

The Stark Law is a strict liability civil law that prohibits a physician who has a financial relationship, or who has an immediate family member who has a financial relationship, with entities providing Designated Health Services (DHS), from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients to such entities for the furnishing of DHS, unless an exception applies. The types of financial arrangements between a physician and a DHS entity that trigger the self-referral prohibitions of the Stark Law are broad and include direct and indirect ownership and investment interests and compensation arrangements. The Stark Law also prohibits the DHS entity receiving a prohibited referral from presenting, or causing to be presented, a claim or billing for the services arising out of the prohibited referral. If the Stark Law is implicated, the financial relationship must fully satisfy a Stark Law exception. If an exception to the Stark Law is not satisfied, then the parties to the arrangement could be subject to sanctions. Sanctions for violation of the Stark Law include denial of payment for claims for services provided in violation of the prohibition, refunds of amounts collected in violation of the prohibition, a civil penalty of up to $15,000 (adjusted for inflation) for each service arising out of the prohibited referral, a statutory civil penalty of up to $100,000 (adjusted for inflation) against parties that enter into a scheme to circumvent the Stark Law prohibition, civil assessment of up to three times the amount claimed, and potential exclusion from the federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Amounts collected for prohibited claims must be reported and refunded generally within 60 days after the date on which the overpayment was identified. Furthermore, Stark Law violations and failure to return overpayments timely can form the basis for FCA liability as discussed below.

13

On December 2, 2020, CMS released a final rule implementing modifications to the Stark Law. The purpose of these modifications is to promote value-based and coordinated care arrangements as well as reduce other regulatory burdens. Most changes implemented by the final rule went into effect on January 19, 2021. We continue to assess the anticipated impact of these modifications on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

The definition of DHS under the Stark Law excludes services paid under a composite rate, even if some of the components bundled in the composite rate are DHS. Although the ESRD bundled payment system is no longer titled a composite rate, we believe that the former composite rate payment system and the current bundled system are both composite systems excluded from the Stark Law. Since most services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries provided in our dialysis centers are reimbursed through a bundled rate, we believe that the services performed in our facilities generally are not DHS. Certain separately billable drugs (drugs furnished to an ESRD patient that are not for the treatment of ESRD that CMS allows our centers to bill for using the so-called AY modifier) may be considered DHS. However, we have implemented certain billing controls designed to limit DHS being billed out of our dialysis clinics. Likewise, the definition of inpatient hospital services, for purposes of the Stark Law, also excludes inpatient dialysis performed in hospitals that are not certified to provide ESRD services. Consequently, we believe that our arrangements with such hospitals for the provision of dialysis services to hospital inpatients should not trigger the Stark Law referral prohibition.

In addition, although prescription drugs are DHS, there is an exception in the Stark Law for calcimimetics, EPO and other specifically enumerated dialysis drugs when furnished in or by an ESRD facility such that the arrangement for the furnishing of the drugs does not violate the Stark Law. 

In the ordinary course of business operations, DaVita and its ancillary businesses and subsidiaries have many different types of financial arrangements with referring physicians that potentially implicate the Stark Law, including, but not limited to, medical director agreements, joint ventures, leases and subleases with entities in which physicians, hospitals or medical groups hold ownership interest, consulting agreements, hospital services agreements, discharge planning services agreements, acute dialysis services agreements, value based care arrangements, employment agreements and incentive performance arrangements. In addition, some referring physicians may own our common stock in reliance on the Stark Law exception for investment interests in large publicly traded companies. 

If our interpretation of the applicability of the Stark Law to our operations is incorrect, the controls we have implemented fail, an arrangement is entered into outside of our processes, or we were to fail to satisfy an applicable exception to the Stark Law, we could be found to be in violation of the Stark Law and required to change our practices, face civil penalties, pay substantial fines, return certain payments received from Medicare and beneficiaries or otherwise experience a material adverse effect.

 In addition, it might be necessary to restructure existing compensation agreements with our medical directors and to repurchase or to request the sale of ownership interests in subsidiaries and partnerships held by referring physicians or, alternatively, to refuse to accept referrals for DHS from these physicians, or take other actions to modify our operations. Any finding by CMS or other regulatory or enforcement authorities that we have violated the Stark Law or related penalties and restructuring or other required actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, stock price and reputation.

False Claims Act

The federal FCA is a means of policing false bills or false requests for payment in the healthcare delivery system. In part, the FCA authorizes the imposition of up to three times the government’s damages and civil penalties, plus up to approximately $23,000 per claim, on any person who, among other acts:

•Knowingly presents or causes to be presented to the federal government, a false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval;

•Knowingly makes, uses or causes to be made or used, a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim;

•Knowingly makes, uses, or causes to be made or used, a false record or statement material to an obligation to pay the government, or knowingly conceals or knowingly and improperly, avoids or decreases an obligation to pay or transmit money or property to the federal government; or

•Conspires to commit the above acts.

In addition, amendments to the FCA impose severe penalties for the knowing and improper retention of overpayments collected from government payors. Under these provisions, within 60 days of identifying and quantifying an overpayment, a 

14

provider is required to follow certain notification and repayment processes. An overpayment impermissibly retained could subject us to liability under the FCA, exclusion from government healthcare programs, and penalties under the federal Civil Monetary Penalty statute. As a result of these provisions, our procedures for identifying and processing overpayments may be subject to greater scrutiny.

The federal government has used the FCA to prosecute a wide variety of alleged false claims and fraud allegedly perpetrated against Medicare and state healthcare programs, including coding errors, billing for services not rendered, the submission of false cost reports, billing for services at a higher payment rate than appropriate, billing under a comprehensive code as well as under one or more component codes included in the comprehensive code and billing for care that is not considered medically necessary. The ACA provides that claims tainted by a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute are false for purposes of the FCA. Some courts have held that filing claims or failing to refund amounts collected in violation of the Stark Law can form the basis for liability under the FCA. In addition to the provisions of the FCA, which provide for civil enforcement, the federal government can use several criminal statutes to prosecute persons who are alleged to have submitted false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government. 

Fraud and abuse under state law

Some states in which we operate dialysis centers have laws prohibiting physicians from holding financial interests in various types of medical facilities to which they refer patients. Some of these laws could potentially be interpreted broadly as prohibiting physicians who hold shares of our publicly traded stock or are physician owners from referring patients to our dialysis centers if the centers use our laboratory subsidiary to perform laboratory services for their patients or do not otherwise satisfy an exception to the law. States also have laws similar to or stricter than the federal Anti-Kickback Statute that may affect our ability to receive referrals from physicians with whom we have financial relationships, such as our medical directors. Some state anti-kickback laws also include civil and criminal penalties. Some of these laws include exemptions that may be applicable to our medical directors and other physician relationships or for financial interests limited to shares of publicly traded stock. Some, however, may include no explicit exemption for certain types of agreements and/or relationships entered into with physicians. If these laws are interpreted to apply to referring physicians with whom we contract for items or services, including medical directors, or to referring physicians with whom we hold joint ownership interests or to referring physicians who hold interests in DaVita Inc. limited solely to our publicly traded stock, and for which no applicable exception exists, we may be required to terminate or restructure our relationships with or refuse referrals from these referring physicians and could be subject to criminal, civil and administrative sanctions, refund requirements and exclusions from government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation and stock price.

Corporate Practice of Medicine and Fee-Splitting

There are states in which we operate that have laws that prohibit business entities not owned by health care providers, such as our Company and our subsidiaries, from practicing medicine, employing physicians and other health care providers providing certain clinical services or exercising control over medical or clinical decisions by physicians and potentially other types of health care providers (known collectively as the corporate practice of medicine). These states may also prohibit entities from engaging in certain financial arrangements, such as fee-splitting, with physicians and potentially other types of health care providers. Violations of the corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting and related laws vary by state and may result in physicians and potentially other types of health care providers being subject to disciplinary action, as well as to forfeiture of revenues from payors for services rendered. Violations may also bring both civil and, in more extreme cases, criminal liability for engaging in medical practice without a license and violating the corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting and related laws. Some of the relevant laws, regulations, and agency interpretations in states with corporate practice of medicine restrictions have been subject to limited judicial and regulatory interpretation. 

Civil Monetary Penalties Statute

The Civil Monetary Penalties Statute, 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7a, authorizes the imposition of civil money penalties, assessments, and exclusion against an individual or entity based on a variety of prohibited conduct, including, but not limited to:

•Presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that the individual or entity knows or should know are for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent; 

•Offering remuneration to a federal healthcare program beneficiary that the individual or entity knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary to order or receive healthcare items or services from a particular provider;

15

•Arranging contracts with an entity or individual excluded from participation in the federal healthcare programs;

•Violating the federal Anti-Kickback Statute;

•Making, using, or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim for payment for items and services furnished under a federal healthcare program;

•Making, using, or causing to be made any false statement, omission, or misrepresentation of a material fact in any application, bid, or contract to participate or enroll as a provider of services or a supplier under a federal healthcare program; and

•Failing to report and return an overpayment owed to the federal government.

Substantial civil monetary penalties may be imposed under the federal Civil Monetary Penalty Statute and vary, depending on the underlying violation. In addition, an assessment of not more than three times the total amount claimed for each item or service may also apply, and a violator may be subject to exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs.

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

We are subject to the provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) in the United States and similar laws in other countries, which generally prohibit companies and those acting on their behalf from making improper payments to foreign government officials and others for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. A violation of the FCPA or other similar laws by us and/or our agents or representatives could result in, among other things, the imposition of fines and penalties, changes to our business practices, the termination of or other adverse impacts under our contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts, and/or harm to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Privacy and Security

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing privacy and security regulations, as amended by the federal Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH Act) (collectively referred to as HIPAA), require us to provide certain protections to patients and their health information. The HIPAA privacy and security regulations extensively regulate the use and disclosure of PHI and require covered entities, which include healthcare providers, to implement and maintain administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the security of such information. Additional security requirements apply to electronic PHI. These regulations also provide patients with substantive rights with respect to their health information.

The HIPAA privacy and security regulations also require us to enter into written agreements with certain contractors, known as business associates, to whom we disclose PHI. Covered entities may be subject to penalties for, among other activities, failing to enter into a business associate agreement where required by law or as a result of a business associate violating HIPAA if the business associate is found to be an agent of the covered entity and acting within the scope of the agency. Business associates are also directly subject to liability under the HIPAA privacy and security regulations. In instances where we act as a business associate to a covered entity, there is the potential for additional liability beyond our status as a covered entity.

Covered entities must report breaches of unsecured PHI to affected individuals without unreasonable delay but not to exceed 60 days of discovery of the breach by a covered entity or its agents. Notification must also be made to the HHS and, for breaches of unsecured PHI involving more than 500 residents of a state or jurisdiction, to the media. All non-permitted uses or disclosures of unsecured PHI are presumed to be breaches unless the covered entity or business associate establishes that there is a low probability the information has been compromised. Various state laws and regulations may also require us to notify affected individuals, and U.S. state attorneys general, or other regulators or law enforcement, in the event of a data breach involving individually identifiable information without regard to whether there is a low probability of the information being compromised.

Penalties for impermissible use or disclosure of PHI were increased by the HITECH Act by imposing tiered penalties of more than $50,000 per violation and up to $1.5 million per year for identical violations. In addition, HIPAA provides for criminal penalties of up to $250,000 and ten years in prison, with the severest penalties for obtaining and disclosing PHI with the intent to sell, transfer or use such information for commercial advantage, personal gain or malicious harm. Further, state attorneys general may bring civil actions seeking either injunction or damages in response to violations of the HIPAA privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents.

16

In addition to the protection of PHI, healthcare companies must meet privacy and security requirements applicable to other categories of personal information. Companies may process consumer information in conjunction with website and corporate operations. They may also handle employee information, including Social Security Numbers, payroll information, and other categories of sensitive information, to further their employment practices. In processing this additional information, companies must comply with the applicable privacy and security requirements of comprehensive privacy and data protection laws, consumer protection laws, labor and employment laws, and its publicly-available notices.

Data protection laws and regulations are evolving globally, and may continue to add additional compliance costs and legal risks to our international operations. In the European Union, the General Data Protection Regulation (EU GDPR) imposes a comprehensive data protection regime with the potential for regulatory fines as well as data breach litigation by impacted data subjects. Under the EU GDPR, regulatory penalties may be passed by data protection authorities for up to the greater of 4% of worldwide turnover or €20 million. The United Kingdom has implemented similar legislation (UK GDPR) that may carry similar compliance and operational costs as the EU GDPR, and non-compliance with which carries potential fines of up to the greater of £17.5 million or 4% of global turnover. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the EU GDPR, UK GDPR and other new laws, regulations and policies implementing the EU GDPR and UK GDPR may impact our European and United Kingdom operations and may limit the ways in which we can provide services or use personal data collected while providing services.

Privacy and data protection laws are also evolving nationally, providing for enhanced state privacy rights that are broader than the current federal privacy rights, and may add additional compliance costs and legal risks to our U.S. operations. For example, the California Consumer Protection Act (CCPA), which became effective January 1, 2020, requires certain companies doing business in California to enhance privacy disclosures regarding the collection, use and sharing of a consumer's personal data. The CCPA also permits the imposition of civil penalties, grants enforcement authority to the state Attorney General and provides a private right of action for consumers where certain personal information is breached due to unreasonable information security practices. Additionally, the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), which is expected to take effect in January 2023, significantly expands the data protection obligations imposed by the CCPA on companies doing business in California, including additional consumer rights processes, limitations on data uses, and opt outs for certain uses of sensitive data. It will also create a new California data protection agency to enforce the law, and require certain businesses with higher risk privacy and security practices to submit annual audits to the agency on a regular basis. The CPRA will likely result in broader increased regulatory scrutiny in California of businesses’ privacy and security practices, could lead to a further rise in data protection litigation, and will require additional compliance investment and potential business process changes in the meantime. In addition to California, other states have passed similar privacy laws, such as the Colorado Privacy Act and the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act.

In addition to the breach reporting requirements under HIPAA, companies are subject to state breach notification laws. Each state enforces a law requiring companies to provide notice of a breach of certain categories of sensitive personal information, e.g. Social Security Number, financial account information, or username and password. A company impacted by a breach must notify affected individuals, attorney’s general or other agencies within a certain time frame. If a company does not provide timely notice with the required content, it may be subject to civil penalties brought by attorney’s generals or affected individuals. 

Companies must also safeguard personal information in accordance with federal and state data security laws and requirements. These requirements are akin to the HIPAA requirements to safeguard PHI, described above. The Federal Trade Commission, for example, requires companies to implement reasonable data security measures relative to its operations and the volume and complexity of the information it processes. Also, various state data security laws require companies to safeguard data with technical security controls and underlying policies and processes. Due to the constant changes in the data security space, companies must continuously review and update data security practices to mitigate any potential operational or legal liabilities stemming from data security risks. If we fail to comply with applicable privacy and security laws, regulations

and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information, including PHI,

on our behalf, properly maintain the integrity of our data, protect our proprietary rights, or defend against cybersecurity attacks,

it could materially harm our reputation and/or have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial

condition and cash flows.

Integrated Kidney Care and Medicare and Medicaid program reforms

The regulatory framework of the healthcare marketplace continues to evolve as a result of executive, legislative, regulatory and administrative developments and judicial proceedings. These changes shape the landscape for our current dialysis business as well as for emerging comprehensive and integrated kidney care programs. The following discussion describes certain of these changes in further detail.

17

CMMI Payment Models: An executive order issued in July 2019 (the 2019 Executive Order) directed CMS to create payment models through CMMI to evaluate the effects of creating payment incentives for the greater use of home-based dialysis and kidney transplants for those already on dialysis, improve quality of care for kidney patients and reduce expenditures. The first of these, the ESRD Treatment Choices (ETC) mandatory payment model launched in approximately 30% of dialysis clinics across the country on January 1, 2021. In November 2021, CMS revised the ETC model to include an additional positive payment adjustment for significant improvement in the home dialysis rate or the transplant waitlist rate among ESRD patients with lower socioeconomic status. CMS will also stratify the achievement benchmarks for geographies with 50 percent or more patients who are dual-eligible or received a Low Income Subsidy (LIS) to account for socioeconomic factors that may impact the ability to receive home-based dialysis or gain placement on a transplant waitlist. CMS also announced the Global and Professional Direct Contracting (GPDC) Model to reduce the cost and improve the quality of care for Medicare fee-for-service patients. The Company, via its wholly owned subsidiary Vively Health, began participating in the GPDC Model at the start of the first performance year on April 1, 2021. CMS also announced the implementation of two voluntary kidney care payment models, Kidney Care First (KCF) and Comprehensive Kidney Care Contracting (CKCC), with the stated goal of helping healthcare providers reduce the cost and improve the quality of care for patients with late-stage chronic kidney disease and ESRD. CMS has stated these payment models are aimed to prevent or delay the need for dialysis and encourage kidney transplantation. Certain of these payment models, such as the First Performance Period for the Kidney Care Choices Model CKCC Options (the CKCC Model) commenced on January 1, 2022. As described above, the Company has invested substantial resources, and expects to continue to invest substantial resources in these models as part of the Company's overall plan to grow its integrated kidney care business and value-based care initiatives.

In addition to the aforementioned new models of care, federal bipartisan legislation related to full capitation demonstration for ESRD was introduced in Congress in August 2021 as the BETTER Kidney Care Act. This proposed legislation would build on prior coordinated care models, such as the Comprehensive ESRD Care (CEC) Model, and would establish a demonstration program for the provision of integrated care to Medicare fee-for-service dialysis and transplant patients. As noted above, we have made and continue to make substantial investments in value based care and building our integrated care capabilities, but there can be no assurances that initiatives such as this or any other legislation that aligns with our strategy and investments will be passed into law, and the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic may delay the progress of any such initiatives. Irrespective of whether such laws are passed, there can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully execute on the required strategic initiatives that would allow us to provide a competitive and successful integrated care program on the broad scale, and in the desired time frame. Additionally, the ultimate terms and conditions of any such potential legislation remain unclear. For example, our costs of care could exceed our associated reimbursement rates under such legislation.

For additional details on the risks related to integrated kidney care and Medicare and Medicaid program reforms, see the discussion in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the headings "If we are not able to successfully implement our strategy with respect to our integrated kidney care and value-based care initiatives, including maintaining our existing business and further developing our capabilities in a complex and highly regulated environment, it could result in a loss of our investments and have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could materially harm our reputation;" and "If we are unable to compete successfully, including, without limitation, implementing our growth strategy and/or retaining patients and developing and maintaining relationships with physicians and hospitals, it could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows."

ACA and related regulations: The ACA regulatory framework of the healthcare marketplace continues to evolve as a result of executive, legislative, regulatory and administrative developments and judicial proceedings. For example, the expanded access to healthcare developed under the ACA has been both positively and negatively impacted over time by subsequent legal, regulatory and judicial action. In 2021, the American Rescue Plan included several provisions designed to expand health coverage during the COVID-19 pandemic, including the expansion of premium tax credits that assist consumers who purchase health insurance on marketplaces developed under the ACA and temporarily offering incentives to expand Medicaid coverage for states that have not yet done so. Our revenue and operating income levels are highly sensitive to the percentage of our patients with higher-paying commercial health insurance and any legislative, regulatory or other changes that decrease the accessibility and availability, including the duration, of commercial insurance is likely to have a material adverse impact on our business. 

Changes to the political environment may increase the likelihood of legislative or regulatory changes that would impact us, such as changes to the healthcare regulatory landscape. Examples of such potential changes also could include, among other things, legislative developments or administrative decisions such as moving to a universal health insurance or "single payor" system whereby health insurance is provided to all Americans by the government, the availability of a "public health insurance option" similar to Medicare, government programs that impact access to Medicaid expansion or impact funding provided to families to purchase plans through the health insurance exchanges or changes to the eligibility age for Medicare beneficiaries. Some of these or other changes could in turn impact the percentage of our patients with higher-paying commercial health 

18

insurance, impact the scope or terms of coverage under commercial health plans and/or increase our expenses, among other things. The timing of legislative or executive action related to these potential initiatives, if any, remains uncertain, particularly in light of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and as such, considerable uncertainty exists surrounding the continued development of the ACA and related regulations, programs and models, as well as similar healthcare reform measures and/or other potential changes at the federal and/or state level to laws, regulations and other requirements that govern our business.

21st Century Cures Act: The Cures Act included a provision that, effective January 1, 2021, allows Medicare eligible beneficiaries with ESRD to choose coverage under a MA managed care plan. This provision has broadened patient access to certain enhanced benefits offered by MA plans. MA plans usually provide reimbursement to us at a negotiated rate that is generally higher than Medicare FFS rates. This change in benefit eligibility has increased the percentage of our patients on MA plans as compared to Medicare Part B plans, though it is unclear how many eligible ESRD patients will continue to seek to enroll in MA plans for their ESRD benefits over time. This uncertainty may be heightened by a provision in the Cures Act that, among other things, removes the objective time and distance standards relating to network adequacy for outpatient dialysis centers for MA plans. The removal of these standards could result in MA plans seeking to limit provider networks available to dialysis patients. If MA plans attempt to use this revision to the rules to limit or restrict their networks, this may adversely impact the number of ESRD patients that select MA plans and also may result in the Company not being an in-network provider for significant MA plans. For details on the risks associated with these provisions of the Cures Act, see the risk factors in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the headings, "Our business is subject to a complex set of governmental laws, regulations and other requirements and any failure to adhere to those requirements, or any changes in those requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, could materially harm our stock price, and in some circumstances, could materially harm our reputation;" and "If the number or percentage of patients with higher-paying commercial insurance declines, if the average rates that commercial payors pay us decline, if patients in commercial plans are subject to restriction in plan designs, or if we are unable to maintain contracts with payors with competitive terms, including, without limitation, reimbursement rates, scope and duration of coverage and in-network benefits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows." 

The Cures Act also includes provisions related to data interoperability, information blocking, and patient access. CMS and the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) issued final rules related to these provisions, which include, among other things, requirements surrounding information blocking, changes to ONC's Health IT Certification Program and requirements that CMS-regulated payors make relevant claims/care data and provider directory information available through standardized patient access and provider directory application programming interfaces (APIs) that connect to provider electronic health records. We have made and continue to make investments in building data interoperability capabilities, including as part of building on our integrated care capabilities as noted above, and continue to monitor guidance from ONC on the rule.

Price Transparency Rules: In addition, recent price transparency regulations require most group health plans, and health insurance issuers in the group and individual markets, to make certain pricing and patient responsibility information publicly available. For plan years that start on or after January 1, 2022, and with enforcement beginning on July 1, 2022, any such plan or issuer must publish monthly machine-readable files that include negotiated rates between the plan or issuer and in-network providers, and allowed amounts paid and/or billed charges for out-of-network providers, for all covered items and services. For plan years that begin on or after January 1, 2023, most group health plans, and health insurance issuers in the group and individual markets, must provide enrollees with out-of-pocket cost and underlying provider negotiated rate information in a consumer-friendly format for an initial list of 500 designated services (which do not include dialysis). A plan or issuer may choose to include more than these 500 services, and for plan years that begin on or after January 1, 2024, most group health plans, and health insurance issuers in the group and individual markets, must provide enrollees with this information for all covered items and services. Additionally, CMS released regulations associated with "surprise billing" which necessitate, among other requirements, that certain providers provide patients with information regarding patient financial accountability and costs of services in advance of care being provided. While the ultimate impact of these regulations remains uncertain, any changes by group health plans, health insurance issuers in the group and individual markets, or consumer choices resulting from these regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and could materially harm our reputation. 

COVID-19 Response: In September 2021, President Biden directed federal agencies to develop rules and take action related to COVID-19 vaccination requirements, including rules that may impact employers with 100 or more employees as well as workers in the dialysis and other healthcare settings. On November 4, 2021, OSHA released the COVID-19 vaccine emergency temporary standard (ETS), but withdrew the rule effective January 26, 2022 after legal challenges. On November 5, 2021, CMS also issued an Interim Final Rule (IFR) requiring that, as a condition of participation in Medicare and Medicaid, various providers and suppliers, including ESRD facilities, implement policies and procedures for COVID-19 vaccination of all staff who provide care, treatment, or other services for the provider or its patients. Several legal challenges have been filed 

19

against the IFR, but the U.S. Supreme Court lifted the injunction against the IFR while the legal challenges proceed in the lower courts such that all healthcare workers at the providers and suppliers noted above are to be fully vaccinated or receive an approved medical or religious accommodation by February 28, 2022, in accordance with federal employment law. In addition, on September 9, 2021, President Biden issued Executive Order 14042, referred to as the federal contractor vaccine mandate, to require all U.S. based employees working on or in connection with covered federal government contracts and all other employees who share workplaces with or come into contact with employees working on or in connection with covered federal government contracts, to be fully vaccinated, or have an approved medical or religious accommodation, by January 18, 2022. In December 2021 a federal court enjoined the federal contractor vaccine mandate. A number of of other courts have enjoined the federal contractor vaccine mandate. At this time, several other state vaccine mandates have been legally challenged and are under review by the applicable courts. The uncertainty associated with the legal standing of these mandates and the cumulative impact of those mandates, that have already gone into effect, contributes to the volatility and uncertainty in the current labor market and may ultimately exacerbate the risk and impact of labor shortages on our business. For additional information on the risks to our business associated with COVID-19 and labor market conditions, see the risk factors in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the headings, "We face various risks related to the dynamic and evolving novel coronavirus pandemic, many of which may have a material adverse impact on us;" and "Our business is labor intensive and if our labor costs continue to rise, including due to shortages, changes in certification requirements and/or higher than normal turnover rates in skilled clinical personnel; or currently pending or future governmental laws, rules, regulations or initiatives impose additional requirements or limitations on our operations or profitability; or, if we are unable to attract and retain employees; or if union organizing activities or legislative or other changes result in significant increases in our operating costs or decreases in productivity, we may experience disruptions in our business operations and increases in operating expenses, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and reputation" and "We face various risks related to the dynamic and evolving novel coronavirus pandemic, many of which may have a material adverse impact on us."

In addition, certain state and federal agencies, including OSHA and CMS, have released requirements, or are considering or are in the process of modifying existing requirements associated with the continued protection of employees as it relates to COVID-19. These requirements may result in increased costs related to, among other things, PPE, fit-testing, and paid time off, mandated surveillance testing of our teammates for COVID-19 and other increased obligations with which we must comply. Compliance with COVID-19-related safety rules and regulations is generally enforced with sanctions and/or fines, and non-compliance also has the potential for negative publicity or reputational impact. As these requirements are continuing to evolve and develop, at this time we cannot predict the ultimate impact they might have on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Other regulations

Our U.S. dialysis and related lab services operations are subject to various state hazardous waste and non-hazardous medical waste disposal laws. These laws do not classify as hazardous most of the waste produced from dialysis services. OSHA regulations require employers to provide workers who are occupationally subject to blood or other potentially infectious materials with prescribed protections. These regulatory requirements apply to all healthcare facilities, including dialysis centers, and require employers to make a determination as to which employees may be exposed to blood or other potentially infectious materials and to have in effect a written exposure control plan. In addition, employers are required to provide or employ hepatitis B vaccinations, personal protective equipment and other safety devices, infection control training, post-exposure evaluation and follow-up, waste disposal techniques and procedures and work practice controls. Employers are also required to comply with various record-keeping requirements.

In addition, a few states in which we do business have certificate of need programs regulating the establishment or expansion of healthcare facilities, including dialysis centers.

State initiatives

There have been several state initiatives to limit payments to dialysis providers or impose other burdensome operational requirements, which, if passed, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation, financial condition and cash flows. For instance, in 2020, voters in California considered a statewide ballot initiative proposed by the Service Employees International Union - United Healthcare Workers West (SEIU) that sought to impose certain regulatory requirements on dialysis clinics, including requirements related to physician staffing levels, clinical reporting, clinical treatment options and limitations on the ability to make decisions on closing or reducing services for dialysis clinics. While voters rejected this ballot initiative in 2020, we incurred substantial costs to oppose it. On August 25, 2021, SEIU again proposed a California statewide ballot initiative with similar provisions. In the event this proposal becomes eligible for the November 2022 election, we expect to again incur substantial costs to oppose it. We may face ballot initiatives or other proposed regulations or 

20

legislation in California or other states in future years, which may require us to incur further substantial costs and which, if passed, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 

Evolving proposed or issued laws, requirements, rules and guidance that impact our business, including without limitation as may be described above, and any failure on our part to adequately adjust to any resulting marketplace developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For additional discussion on the risks associated with the evolving payment and regulatory landscape for kidney care, see the discussion in Item 1A. Risk Factors, including the discussion under the heading, "Our business is subject to a complex set of governmental laws, regulations and requirements and any failure to adhere to those requirements, or any changes in those requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, could materially harm our stock price, and in some circumstances, could materially harm our reputation;" and "Changes in federal and state healthcare legislation or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows."

Corporate compliance program

Management has designed and implemented a corporate compliance program as part of our commitment to comply fully with applicable criminal, civil and administrative laws and regulations and to maintain the high standards of conduct we expect from all of our teammates. We continuously review this program and work to enhance it as appropriate. The primary purposes of the program include:

•Assessing and identifying health care regulatory risks for existing and new businesses;

•Training and educating our teammates and affiliated professionals to promote awareness of legal and regulatory requirements, a culture of compliance, and the necessity of complying with all applicable laws, regulations and requirements;

•Developing and implementing compliance policies and procedures and creating controls to support compliance with applicable laws, regulations and requirements and our policies and procedures;

•Auditing and monitoring the activities of our operating units and business support functions to identify and mitigate risks and potential instances of noncompliance in a timely manner; and

•Ensuring that we promptly take steps to resolve any instances of noncompliance and address areas of weakness or potential noncompliance.

We have a code of conduct that each of our teammates, members of our Board of Directors, affiliated professionals and certain third parties must follow, and we have an anonymous compliance hotline for teammates and patients to report potential instances of noncompliance that is managed by a third party. Our Chief Compliance Officer administers the compliance program. The Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the Chair of the Compliance and Quality Committee of our Board of Directors (Board).

Any future penalties, sanctions or other consequences could be more severe in certain circumstances if the OIG or a similar regulatory authority determines that we knowingly or repeatedly failed to comply with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, including substantial penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, reputation and stock price.

Competition

The U.S. dialysis industry has experienced consolidation over the last 20 years, but remains highly competitive. In our U.S. dialysis business, we continue to face intense competition from large and medium-sized providers, among others, which compete directly with us for limited acquisition targets, for individual patients who may choose to dialyze with us and to engage physicians qualified to provide required medical director services. Competition for growth in existing and expanding geographies or areas is intense and is not limited to only those large dialysis providers with substantial financial resources or established participants in the dialysis space. We also compete with new dialysis providers, individual nephrologists, former medical directors or physicians that have opened their own dialysis units or facilities. Moreover, as we continue our international dialysis expansion into various international markets, we face competition from large and medium-sized providers, among others, for acquisition targets as well as physician relationships. We also experience competitive pressures from other dialysis and healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified skilled clinical personnel as well as in connection with negotiating contracts with commercial healthcare payors and inpatient dialysis service agreements with hospitals. Acquisitions, developing new outpatient dialysis centers, patient retention and referrals, and physician relationships are significant components of our growth strategy and our business could be adversely affected if we are not able to continue to make dialysis 

21

acquisitions on reasonable and acceptable terms, continue to develop new outpatient dialysis centers, maintain or establish new relationships with physicians or if we experience significant patient attrition or lack of new patient growth relative to our competitors. 

Our largest competitor, Fresenius Medical Group (FMC), manufactures a full line of dialysis supplies and equipment in addition to owning and operating outpatient dialysis centers worldwide. This may, among other things, give FMC cost advantages over us because of its ability to manufacture its own products. Additionally, FMC has been one of our largest suppliers of dialysis products and equipment over the last several years. In January 2021, upon the expiration of our prior agreement with FMC on December 31, 2020, we entered into and subsequently extended a new agreement with FMC to purchase a certain amount of dialysis equipment, parts and supplies from FMC which extends through December 31, 2024. The amount of purchases from FMC over the remaining term of this agreement will depend upon a number of factors, including the operating requirements of our centers, the number of centers we acquire, and growth of our existing centers.

In addition to traditional dialysis providers, there have been a number of announcements, initiatives and capital raises by non-traditional dialysis providers and others along the full continuum of kidney care from CKD to dialysis to transplant. These providers, certain of which command considerable resources and capital, may increasingly compete with us in the integrated kidney care market as we seek to grow in that space, or they may focus their efforts on the development of more conventional dialysis competition or the commencement of other new business activities or the development of innovative technologies that could be transformative to the industry. For additional discussion on these developments and associated risks, see the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading, "If we are unable to compete successfully, including, without limitation, implementing our growth strategy and/or retaining patients and developing and maintaining relationships with physicians and hospitals, it could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows."

Insurance

We are predominantly self-insured with respect to professional and general liability and workers' compensation risks through wholly-owned captive insurance companies. We are also predominantly self-insured with respect to employee medical and other health benefits. We also maintain insurance, excess coverage, or reinsurance for property and general liability, professional liability, directors’ and officers’ liability, workers' compensation, cybersecurity and other coverage in amounts and on terms deemed appropriate by management, based on our actual claims experience and expectations for future claims. Future claims could, however, exceed our applicable insurance coverage. Physicians practicing at our dialysis centers are required to maintain their own malpractice insurance, and our medical directors are required to maintain coverage for their individual private medical practices. Our liability policies cover our medical directors for the performance of their duties as medical directors at our outpatient dialysis centers.

Human capital management

Overview

At DaVita, we are guided by our Mission—to be the provider, partner and employer of choice—and a set of Core Values—Service Excellence, Integrity, Team, Continuous Improvement, Accountability, Fulfillment and Fun—which are reinforced at all levels of the organization. Our teammates share a common passion for improving patients' lives and are the cornerstone for the health of DaVita.

We strive to be a community first and a company second, and affectionately call ourselves a Village. To be a healthy Village, we need to attract, retain and develop highly qualified and diverse teammates. To do so, we have implemented strategies that support our mission to be the employer of choice, such as: 

•Designing programs and processes to cultivate a diverse talent pipeline that can allow us to hire ahead of needs;

•Providing development and professional growth opportunities; and

•Offering a robust and competitive total rewards program. 

These efforts are underpinned by a foundational focus on diversity and belonging that starts at the top with our Board and executive leadership and permeates through our Village as further described below. 

We believe that this intentional investment of time and resources fosters a special community of teammates that, in turn, inspires the Village to take better care of our patients and better care of the communities in which we live.

22

Oversight & Management

Our Board provides oversight on human capital matters, receiving regular updates from our Chief People Officer about People Services’ activities, strategies and initiatives, and through the Board’s annual work with our CEO on management development and succession planning. Among other things, our Board and/or its committees also receive reports related to pay equity, risks and trends related to labor and human capital management issues and general issues pertaining to our teammates. The Board, in conjunction with its committees, also oversees the Company's activities, policies and programs related to corporate environmental and social responsibility, including considering the impact of such activities, policies and programs on the Company, teammates, patients and communities, among others.

These reports and recommendations to the Board and its committees are part of our broader People Services leadership and oversight framework, which includes guidance from various stakeholders across the business and benefits from the broad participation of senior leadership. 

Diversity & Belonging

Our investment in our teammates is underscored by our commitment to Diversity & Belonging (D&B). We published our first D&B Report in March 2021, which disclosed our diversity metrics and roadmap for delivering our vision of cultivating "a diverse Village where everyone belongs." Our 3,154 dialysis centers operate in communities large and small, in nearly every state in the U.S. as well as ten other countries. Our Village's diversity is inherent in the teammates who work in our centers, the patients we care for, the physicians with whom we partner, and the communities where we serve.

To help achieve this vision, we empower all leaders and teammates to cultivate D&B in their centers and on their teams. One way we do this is by sharing tools and resources like our Belonging Teammate and Belonging Leader Guides, which encourage teammates to connect with each other to learn about individual experiences with belonging and better understand the impact of unconscious bias. Based on our most recent internal surveys, 84% of teammates indicated that they feel a sense of belonging within the DaVita community. We also launched our second annual Week of Belonging in 2021, engaging approximately 69,000 teammates globally with activities and education designed to further create a sense of belonging.

We take a collaborative, leader-led approach to building our D&B program. Everyone from our front-line patient care technicians (PCTs) and nurses to our divisional vice presidents, our CEO and our Board has a role in implementing our strategy. It truly does take a Village to bring our vision to life. 

Over the past several years, our D&B efforts have focused primarily on supporting strong representation of women and people of color in our Company and ensuring that we are creating a welcoming, open environment where all teammates, patients, physicians and care partners belong. 

As of December 31, 2021, our Village in the U.S. was comprised of 78% women and 55% people of color. We are proud of the fact that in the U.S. as of December 31, 2021, 73% of our managers and 57% of our directors are women and that leaders with profit and loss responsibility are 54% women and 25% people of color. We also are proud that our Board is comprised of 44% women and 33% people of color. With respect to Board leadership positions, we are one of the few companies in the S&P 500 to have a woman serving as the Chair of the Board. We are also one of the few S&P 500 companies to have a person of color serve as our CEO. We publish our demographic data in our EEO-1 Report, which is included in our Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Report.

Talent Pipeline and Career Development

We understand that a key component of developing strong representation of women and people of color in leadership is to have recruiting practices focused on diversity. Some of our practices include: 

•Diverse Sourcing: Our recruiters are trained on how to source for diverse candidates to ensure we have a robust pipeline at all levels of the organization.

•Diverse Partnerships: We have external partnerships with organizations like Forte Foundation and Management Leadership for Tomorrow to help create equal opportunities for diverse candidates.

•Redwoods Leadership: We partner closely with diverse student body organizations at colleges and universities to source applicants for our Redwoods leadership development programs. 

Helping teammates reach the next stage in their career and increasing their earnings potential is one of our passions. We have several career development programs that support teammates to further their careers. To help ensure that teammates have the support needed to succeed in their current roles, and grow their careers, we have invested in an end-to-end career 

23

development pipeline that includes programs and initiatives that provide financial, academic and social support to our clinical and operations personnel to help achieve their higher education and leadership goals. We are proud of our Clinical Ladders program that ties performance and career progression. This program is designed to clarify for teammates what is expected in order to move to the next level on the ladder and help provide them with the tools to do so. Predominately all of our teammates are clinical field/operations personnel, and we have programs in place to help guide their potential journey at DaVita. Beginning with programs that cover certification fees for PCTs to coaching and tuition programs that help guide PCTs to becoming registered nurses (RNs) to programs that help develop high potential nurses, clinical coordinators and clinic nurse managers into operational managers and ultimately to programs that prepare and coach operational managers for potential regional operations director roles, our goal is to make resources available to teammates at each step of a possible career path. We are proud of the work we have done in this area, with approximately 64% of our Facility Administrators and managers having been promoted internally, as of December 31, 2021.

Total Rewards Program and Pay Equity

Our pay philosophy and practices are designed to be competitive in the local market and to reward strong team and individual performance. We believe merit-driven pay encourages teammates to do their best work, including in caring for our patients, and we strive to link pay to performance so we can continue to incentivize the provision of extraordinary care to our patients and grow our Village.

To help our teammates reach their full potential, we offer a total rewards package. More than just pay, our comprehensive compensation package connects teammates to robust health care coverage, resources for retirement planning and savings, opportunities for career development, and well-being resources for every stage of life. 

We also offer family support programs to our teammates and their families that include family care programs for back-up child and elder care, parental support and parental leave programs. We also offer a number of scholarships for teammates' children and grandchildren.

To support our teammates in maintaining strong physical and mental health, we offer a variety of physical and mental health benefits programs, including, among other things:

•Teammate Assistance Program that offers counseling sessions annually to all teammates and their household members, along with work/life resources and tools that include telephonic or face to face legal consultation and expert financial planning/consultation. Each household member has access to ten free sessions per life event.

•Free access to Headspace application for digital meditation and mindfulness and referrals/consultations on everyday issues such as dependent care, auto repair, pet care and home improvement.

•Vitality Points, a voluntary wellness incentive program that encourages teammates and their spouses/domestic partners to engage with their provider to manage their overall health. In addition, it allows participating teammates and spouses/domestic partners to earn credits toward their medical premium for getting a biometric screening with a primary care provider.

•Short & Long term disability for full time teammates and Life/AD&D coverage at both the basic and supplemental levels.

•Our DaVita Village Network, which provides financial support to eligible teammates experiencing a specific tragedy or hardship and helps cover additional costs that local fundraising and insurance do not fully cover.

We also offer a robust suite of financial well-being programs for eligible teammates including, among others, a 401(k) program with company match, an employee stock purchase plan, health savings account funding for certain high deductible health plans and a deferred compensation plan. We also offer DailyPay, a service that provides teammates with financial flexibility by allowing them to access earned but unpaid wages before payday for a nominal fee. 

Pay Equity

At DaVita, we are committed to equal pay for equal work; meaning, teammates in the same position, performing at the same level, and in similar geographies, are paid fairly relative to one another, regardless of their gender, race or ethnicity. We believe that equitable pay is a critical component of establishing a fair work environment where all teammates are valued and feel like they belong. Fair pay is essential to our ability to attract and motivate the highly qualified, and diverse, teammates who are at the center of our current and future success.

24

Agile Response, Teammate Feedback and Responding to the Public Health Crisis

The COVID-19 pandemic has continued to test our ability to respond to external developments and care for our teammates in real time. One of our key goals during the pandemic has been to maintain frequent communication and engagement with teammates, including "town hall" and Q&A calls, emails and more. We continued this practice in 2021, and as the pandemic continues to evolve, the scope of our teammate communications program has expanded to include COVID-19 testing, treatments, therapies, vaccines and boosters, as well as associated government actions and mandates. As the pandemic has persisted and in response to the hardship imposed by the pandemic on our teammates, and in recognition of their dedication and commitment to our patients’ health, we provided financial support to teammates and we also continue to provide essential relief programs to support teammates, including backup childcare, modified sick policies and certain increased overtime pay for front-line positions.

Most importantly, the health and safety of our teammates, physician partners and their families remains a top priority throughout this ongoing pandemic. We implemented guidance early in the pandemic to help mitigate health and safety risks imposed by COVID-19, including, among other things:

•Securing necessary supplies of personal protective equipment;

•Restricting visitors to our centers;

•Screening teammates, patients and visitors for signs and symptoms of, or exposure to, COVID-19, before allowing entry into our clinics or business offices;

•Implementing an early universal masking policy; 

•Educating teammates and patients on the benefits of the COVID-19 vaccines and boosters, and facilitating the administration of these to our teammates and patients; and

•Providing guidance on staying safe outside of our centers.

We also converted our live, in-person teammate and leadership development programs to virtual delivery, to help ensure that our teammates across our global Village could continue to grow personally and professionally and have access to career development resources despite the ongoing pandemic.

We believe our ability to engage with teammates and respond to these developments has helped us to better care for them. By caring for our teammates, we have been generally able to maintain continuity of care for our patients and support the broader healthcare community throughout this unprecedented public health crisis.

As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 69,000 teammates, including our international teammates.

For additional information about certain risks associated with our human capital management and our response to the COVID-19 pandemic, see the risk factors in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the headings, "Our business is labor intensive and if our labor costs continue to rise, including due to shortages, changes in certification requirements and/or higher than normal turnover rates in skilled clinical personnel; or currently pending or future governmental laws, rules, regulations or initiatives impose additional requirements or limitations on our operations or profitability; or, if we are unable to attract and retain employees; or if union organizing activities or legislative or other changes result in significant increases in our operating costs or decreases in productivity, we may experience disruptions in our business operations and increases in operating expenses, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and reputation;" and "We face various risks related to the dynamic and evolving novel coronavirus pandemic, many of which may have a material adverse impact on us."

We also encourage you to visit our website at www.davita.com/communitycare for more detailed information regarding certain aspects of our human capital and ESG related programs and initiatives described herein, including our D&B Report, SASB Report and Policy on Fair and Equitable Pay, as well as our efforts to care for our patients, our community and our world. Nothing on our website, sections thereof or documents linked thereto, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this report.

25

Item 1A. Risk Factors