Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. We are exposed to certain market risks, primarily from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Our senior management actively monitors these risks.

Interest Rate Risk

In addition to existing cash and cash equivalents balances and cash provided by operating activities, we use a combination of fixed- and variable-rate debt instruments to finance our operations. We are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. We had fixed- and variable-rate debt, excluding finance leases and other financing obligations, with varying maturities for an aggregate carrying amount of $17.7 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2021. Our fixed-rate debt at December 31, 2021 primarily consisted of fixed-rate senior notes with a fair value of $18.9 billion, based on matrix pricing which considers readily observable inputs of comparable securities. The potential change in fair value of our fixed-rate senior notes from a hypothetical 1% change in market interest rates would not alone impact any decisions to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate debt instruments before their maturity. Our variable-rate debt at December 31, 2021 primarily consisted of outstanding borrowings on our revolving credit facility, U.S. dollar and Euro commercial paper, variable rate term loan, foreign lines of credit and debt associated with the receivables securitization agreement. Based on our outstanding debt balances and interest rates at December 31, 2021, a hypothetical 1% increase in market interest rates related to our variable-rate debt would increase annual interest expense by approximately $29 million. This sensitivity analysis assumes the outstanding debt balances at December 31, 2021 and the change in market interest rates is applicable for an entire year. 

44

Table of Contents  

In connection with processing electronic payments transactions, we receive settlement funds that are invested into short-term, highly liquid investments from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable recipients. Fluctuations in market interest rates affect the interest-related income that we earn on these investments. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the amount of such interest-related income was not material and, therefore, a hypothetical 1% decrease in market interest rates would not have a significant impact on such income. This sensitivity analysis assumes the subscriber fund balances at December 31, 2021 and the change in market interest rates is applicable for an entire year.

Foreign Currency Risk

We conduct business globally and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-U.S. dollar-denominated foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. We manage the exposure to these risks through the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and non-derivative net investment hedges.

Our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks generally arise from our non-U.S. operations to the extent they are conducted in local currency. Approximately 14% and 13% of our total revenue was generated outside the U.S in 2021 and 2020, respectively. The major currencies to which our revenues are exposed are the Argentine Peso, Brazilian Real, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Euro and Indian Rupee. A strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies in which our revenue and profits are denominated by 10% would have resulted in a decrease or increase, respectively, in our reported pre-tax income as follows at December 31:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]We have entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges, to hedge foreign currency exposure to our operating costs in India. At December 31, 2021, the notional amount of these derivatives was approximately $341 million, with a positive fair value of $6 million. In addition, we designated our foreign currency-denominated senior notes and Euro commercial paper notes as net investment hedges to reduce exposure to changes in the value of our net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

Refer to Item 1A in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for an additional discussion of risks and potential risks of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business.

45

Table of Contents  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data