Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Grainger's primary market risk exposures is as follows: 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

Grainger’s financial results, including the value of assets and liabilities, are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk when the financial statements of the business units outside the U.S., as stated in their local currencies, are translated into U.S. dollars. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, approximately 21% of the Company's net sales were denominated in a currency other than the Company's functional U.S. dollar currency. Consequently, the Company is exposed to the impact of exchange rate volatility primarily between the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen, Canadian dollar and the British pound sterling. In February 2020, Grainger entered into certain derivative instrument agreements to manage this risk. A hypothetical 10% change in the relative value of the U.S. dollar would not materially impact the Company's net earnings for 2021.

For derivative instrument information, see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K.

Interest Rate Risks

Grainger is exposed to interest rate risk on its long-term debt. In February 2020, Grainger entered into certain derivative instrument agreements to hedge a portion of its fixed-rate long-term debt to manage this risk. The annualized effect of a 0.1 percentage point increase in interest rates on Grainger’s variable-rate debt obligations did not have a material impact on the Company's net earnings for 2021.

For long-term debt and derivative instrument information, see Note 6 and Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K.

Commodity Price Risk

Grainger’s transportation costs are exposed to fluctuations in the price of fuel and some sourced products contain commodity-priced materials. The Company regularly monitors commodity trends and, as a broad line supplier, mitigates any material exposure to commodity price risk by having alternative sourcing plans in place that mitigate the risk of supplier concentration, passing commodity-related inflation to customers or suppliers and continuing to scale its distribution networks, including its transportation infrastructure. 

36

Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data