PART I 

Item 1: Business 

W.W. Grainger, Inc., incorporated in the State of Illinois in 1928, is a broad line, business-to-business distributor of maintenance, repair and operating (MRO) products and services with operations primarily in North America (N.A.), Japan and the United Kingdom (U.K.). In this report, the words “Grainger” or “Company” mean W.W. Grainger, Inc. and its subsidiaries, except where the context makes it clear that the reference is only to W.W. Grainger, Inc. itself and not its subsidiaries.

For financial information regarding the Company, see the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K.

The Grainger Edge

Grainger's framework, “The Grainger Edge,” uniquely defines the Company by asserting why it exists, how it serves customers and how team members work together to achieve its objectives. Grainger’s purpose is to keep the world working, which in turn allows customers to focus on the core of their businesses and do what they do best. 

This framework also outlines a set of principles that define the behaviors expected from Grainger’s team members in working with each other and the Company's customers, suppliers and communities as Grainger executes its strategy and creates value for shareholders. For further information on the Company's principles, see below "Workplace Practices and Policies."

General

Effective January 1, 2021, Grainger's two reportable segments are High-Touch Solutions N.A. and Endless Assortment. These reportable segments align with Grainger's go-to-market strategies and bifurcated business models of high-touch solutions and endless assortment. For further segment information, see Part II, Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K.

Below is a description of Grainger’s reportable segments and other businesses. 

High-Touch Solutions N.A. 

The Company's High-Touch Solutions N.A. segment provides value-added MRO solutions that are rooted in deep product knowledge and customer expertise. The high-touch solutions model serves customers with complex buying needs. This segment includes the Grainger-branded businesses in the United States (U.S.), Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico.

Endless Assortment 

The Company’s Endless Assortment segment provides a streamlined and transparent online platform with one-stop shopping for millions of products. The Endless Assortment segment includes the Company’s Zoro Tools, Inc. (Zoro) and MonotaRO Co., Ltd. (MonotaRO) online channels which operate predominately in the U.S., U.K. and Japan.

Other

Other businesses is comprised of smaller international high-touch solutions businesses primarily in the U.K., as well as the Fabory and China businesses in the periods prior to their divestitures in the second and third quarter of 2020, respectively. These businesses individually and in the aggregate do not meet the criteria of a reportable segment. For further business divestitures and liquidation information, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K.

3

Business Models

Competing with both high-touch solutions and endless assortment business models allows Grainger to leverage its scale and advantaged supply chain to meet the changing needs of its customers. The following provides a high-level view of the Company's business models:

Customers

The Company uses a combination of its two business models to serve its more than 4.5 million customers worldwide which rely on Grainger for products and services that enable them to run safe, sustainable and productive operations. Grainger’s customers range from smaller businesses to large corporations, government entities and other institutions, representing a broad collection of industries, including, but not limited to commercial, healthcare, and manufacturing. No single end customer accounted for more than 3% of total sales for the year ended December 31, 2021. 

4

In the High-Touch Solutions N.A. segment, customers are typically large enterprises with multi-faceted purchasing and processing complexities. Customers served in this segment expect product and service depth and are focused on total cost of procurement. For customers with sophisticated electronic purchasing platforms, the segment utilizes eProcurement technology that allows these systems to communicate directly with Grainger.com. Sales and service representatives drive relationships with customers by helping select the right products and reducing costs by utilizing Grainger as a consistent source of supply. KeepStock®, Grainger's inventory management solution, serves customers on site, offering valuable insights to drive efficiencies and cost savings. The North American Customer Service Centers handle customer interactions for the region via phone, email, eCommerce portals and online chat. 

In the Endless Assortment segment, customers are typically smaller businesses with straight-forward product and service needs. Additionally, MonotaRO continues to attract and retain large enterprise customers. Customers purchasing through the endless assortment platforms are focused on transparent pricing and an easy-to-navigate procurement process. MonotaRO and Zoro offer an innovative customer experience by allowing customers to quickly find competitively priced products through intuitive business-focused eCommerce platforms with intelligent analytic capabilities.

Products 

Grainger’s product offering is grouped under several broad categories, including safety and security, material handling and storage, pumps and plumbing equipment, cleaning and maintenance, metalworking and hand tools. Products are regularly added and removed from Grainger's product lines based on customer demand, market research, suppliers' recommendations and other factors. No single product category comprised more than 18% of the Company's sales for the year ended December 31, 2021.

In the High-Touch Solutions N.A. segment, Grainger.com provides real-time price and product availability, detailed product information and features, such as product search and compare capabilities. Collectively, this segment offers more than 2 million products. 

In the Endless Assortment segment, Grainger offers an expansive product assortment and a broad, extensive product range that contains millions of products including those outside of traditional industrial MRO categories. Collectively in the U.S. and U.K., Zoro offers approximately 10 million products and MonotaRO provides access to more than 20 million products, primarily through its websites and catalogs. The endless assortment businesses continue to enhance assortment by strategically adding products and expanding the offer of third party held products.

Distribution and Sources of Supply

In the large and fragmented MRO industry, Grainger holds an advantaged position with its supply chain infrastructure and broad in-stock product offering. Approximately 5,000 suppliers worldwide provide Grainger businesses with more than 1.5 million products stocked in Distribution Centers (DCs) and branches globally. No single supplier comprised more than 5% of Grainger's total purchases for the year ended December 31, 2021. 

In the High-Touch Solutions N.A. segment, DCs are the primary order fulfillment channel, mainly through direct shipments to customers. Automation in the DCs allows most orders to ship complete with next-day delivery and replenish branches that provide same-day availability to customers. Grainger’s North American distribution network supplies inventory planning and management, transportation and distribution services to all Grainger businesses in the North American region. Branches serve the immediate needs of customers by allowing them to directly pick up items and leverage branch staff for their technical product expertise and search-and-select support. Additionally, Grainger offers comprehensive inventory management through its KeepStock® program that includes vendor-managed inventory, customer-managed inventory and onsite vending machines.

In the Endless Assortment segment, orders are placed primarily through online channels. Zoro leverages the High-Touch Solution N.A.'s DCs and third-party drop shipments to deliver products to customers. MonotaRO fulfills customer orders through local DCs and third-party drop shipments.

For further information on the Company’s properties, see Part I, Item 2: Properties of this Form 10-K.

5

Trademarks and Service Marks 

Grainger conducts business under various trademarks and service marks. Approximately 19% of 2021 sales were private label MRO items bearing Grainger’s registered trademarks, including DAYTON®, SPEEDAIRE®, AIR HANDLER®, TOUGH GUY®, WESTWARD®, CONDOR® and LUMAPRO®. Grainger also provides a suite of inventory services to its customers under the KEEPSTOCK® brand, which is a registered service mark. Grainger has taken steps to protect these service marks and trademarks against infringement and believes they will remain available for future use in its business.

Seasonality

Grainger sells products that may have seasonal demand fluctuations during the winter or summer seasons or during periods of natural disasters. However, historical seasonality impacts have not been material to Grainger’s operating results.

Competition

Grainger faces competition from a variety of competitors, including manufacturers (including some of its own suppliers) that sell directly to certain segments of the market, wholesale distributors, retailers and internet-based businesses. Also, competitors vary by size, from large broad line distributors and eCommerce retailers to small local and regional competitors. Grainger differentiates itself by providing local product availability, a broad product line, sales and service representatives and advanced electronic and eCommerce technology. Grainger also offers other services, such as inventory management and technical support. 

Government Regulations

Grainger’s business is subject to a wide array of laws, regulations and standards in each domestic and foreign jurisdiction where Grainger operates. In addition to Grainger’s U.S.-based operations, which in 2021 generated approximately 79% of its consolidated net sales, Grainger operates its business principally through wholly owned subsidiaries in Canada, Mexico and the U.K., and through its majority-owned subsidiary in Japan. Compliance with these laws, regulations and standards requires the dedication of time and effort of team members as well as financial resources. In 2021, compliance with the applicable laws, regulations and standards did not have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. See Part I, Item 1A: Risk Factors of this Form 10-K for a discussion of the risks associated with government regulations that may materially impact Grainger.

Human Capital

The Company strongly believes that its corporate culture must be aligned with its business strategy and aspiration to create value. To that end, Grainger's Board of Directors and senior management are actively involved in cultivating Grainger’s culture. The Compensation Committee of the Board, which is comprised of independent directors, oversees the Company's human capital management programs and policies and routinely provides updates to the Board. 

Grainger believes that a purpose-driven culture is an asset that creates a sustainable, competitive advantage for the Company. Building on its strong foundation while evolving a framework to address future challenges is critical to Grainger’s continued success. Grainger has been consistently recognized for its commitment to its culture, diversity, equity and inclusion efforts and employee engagement.

Team Member Profile

As of December 31, 2021, Grainger had approximately 24,200 team members worldwide, of whom approximately 22,700 were full-time and 1,500 were part-time or temporary. Approximately 86% of these team members resided in North America, 8% in Asia and 6% in Europe. Grainger has not experienced any major work stoppages and considers team member relations to be good.

Workplace Practices and Policies

The Company has in place a strategic framework, The Grainger Edge, which outlines a set of principles that define the behaviors expected from Grainger’s team members in working with each other and the Company's customers, suppliers and communities. This framework helps the Company execute its strategy and create value for shareholders.

6

The Grainger Edge principles also guide the Company’s actions supporting health and safety, diversity, equity and inclusion, and team member experience, including talent acquisition and team member retention, development and compensation and benefits. The Grainger Edge principles are:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Grainger’s culture and principles help the Company attract, retain, motivate and develop its workforce and help drive team member engagement. The Company believes an engaged workforce leads to a more innovative, productive and profitable company and measures team member engagement on an ongoing basis. The results from engagement surveys are used to identify and then implement programs and processes designed to enhance the inclusive culture Grainger aspires to achieve. 

Health and Safety

Grainger strives to provide a safe work environment and ensuring team members are properly prepared to perform the many tasks required to support customers. The Company’s Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) program is designed to integrate EHS into Grainger’s business operations and comply with applicable regulations. To that end, the Company requires each of its locations to perform regular safety audits to confirm proper safety policies, programs, procedures and training are in place.

The Company is focused on promoting a culture of safety and education. Operational team members must complete routine training to fully understand the expectation of behaviors defined by the Company’s global EHS policy. Managing and reducing risks at DCs and other facilities remain a core objective and injury rates continue to be low. In 2021, the Company’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Total Recordable Incident Rate in the U.S. was 1.2 and the Company’s Lost Time Incident Rate in the U.S. was 0.3 based upon the number of incidents per 100 team members (or per 200,000 work hours). 

The Company has a proactive response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic via a task force that helps to ensure the Company’s actions around team members and facilities meet the rigorous guidelines from the Center for Disease Control and World Health Organization, as well as maintaining compliance with state and local health guidelines.

To further support team members' well-being, the Company enhanced its benefit offerings to provide greater access to mental, financial and physical health resources.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Grainger believes a diverse talent pipeline is essential to live its principles, foster innovation, build high-performing teams and drive business results. The Company understands that future business success requires a mix of current and new skill sets, multiple experiences, and a diversity of backgrounds and perspectives, and strives to reflect this priority in its hiring, retention and promotion practices. The Company aspires to increasingly promote a welcoming, inclusive culture that values all people – regardless of sex, gender, race, color, religion, national origin, age, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender expression or experiences – through recruiting outreach, internal networking, business resource groups and mentoring programs.

Grainger's commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion starts at the top. The Company’s Board of Directors is comprised of approximately 31% female and 31% racially and ethnically diverse directors. Grainger also maintains this strong commitment with the CEO's leadership team and throughout the organization. The CEO's leadership team is comprised of approximately 43% women and approximately 29% racially and ethnically diverse leaders. As of December 31, 2021, within Grainger’s U.S. workforce, approximately 39% of team members were women and approximately 37% of team members were racially and ethnically diverse. 

7

Talent Acquisition, Retention and Development

Grainger believes that a great customer experience starts with a great team member experience. The Company is committed to providing team members with resources designed to help them succeed. Grainger focuses on creating opportunities for team member growth, development and training, including offering a comprehensive talent program that continues throughout a team member’s career. This talent program is comprised of performance management, career management, professional development learning opportunities and milestone leadership development programs.

Compensation and Benefits

Grainger believes that its future success is highly dependent upon the Company’s continued ability to attract, retain and motivate team members. As part of its efforts in these areas, the Company offers competitive compensation and benefits to meet the diverse needs of team members and support their health and well-being, financial future and work-life balance. Team members are given access to health plan resources which include 24-hour virtual health services, disease management, tobacco cessation, parental support, stress management and weight loss programs with access to online support communities. In addition, Grainger provides retirement savings, paid holidays and time off, educational assistance and income protection benefits as well as a variety of other programs.

Available Information

Grainger makes available free of charge, through its website, http://www.invest.grainger.com, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after these materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The content of Grainger’s website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K or in any other report or document filed with the SEC, and any references to Grainger’s website are intended to be inactive textual references only. The SEC also maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

8

Information about Executive Officers

Following is information about the Executive Officers of Grainger, including age, as of January 31, 2022. Executive officers of Grainger generally serve until the next annual appointment of officers, or until earlier resignation or removal.

Name and AgePositions and Offices Held and Principal Occupation and Employment

Kathleen S. Carroll (53)Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, a position assumed in December 2018. Previously, Ms. Carroll served as Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer of First Midwest Bancorp, Inc., a diversified financial services company, from 2017 to 2018. Prior to that role, Ms. Carroll was employed at Aon Corporation, a global insurance brokerage and consulting company, between 2006 and 2017 in various human resources roles, culminating in her position as Vice President, Global Head of Talent Acquisition.

John L. Howard (64)Senior Vice President and General Counsel, a position assumed in January 2000. Previously, Mr. Howard served in several roles of increasing responsibility at Tenneco, Inc., a global conglomerate. Prior to those roles, Mr. Howard held a variety of legal positions in the federal government, including Associate Deputy Attorney General in the U.S. Department of Justice and in The White House as Counsel to the Vice President.

D.G. Macpherson (54)Chairman of the Board, a position assumed in October 2017, and Chief Executive Officer, a position assumed in October 2016 at which time he was also appointed to the Board of Directors. Previously, Mr. Macpherson served as Chief Operating Officer, a position assumed in 2015, Senior Vice President and Group President, Global Supply Chain and International, a position assumed in 2013, Senior Vice President and President, Global Supply Chain and Corporate Strategy, a position assumed in 2012, and Senior Vice President, Global Supply Chain, a position assumed in 2008. Prior to Grainger, Mr. Macpherson served as Partner and Managing Director at Boston Consulting Group, a global management consulting firm.

Deidra C. Merriwether (53)Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, a position assumed in January 2021. Previously, Ms. Merriwether served as Senior Vice President, and President, North American Sales & Services, a position assumed in November 2019, Senior Vice President, U.S. Direct Sales and Strategic Initiatives, a position assumed in September 2017, Vice President, Pricing and Indirect Procurement, a position assumed in 2016 and as a Vice President in Finance from 2013 to 2016. Prior to Grainger, Ms. Merriwether held various positions as a Vice President, including positions of increasing responsibility at Sears Holdings Corporation, a broadline retailer, PriceWaterhouseCoopers, a global professional services firm, and Eli Lilly & Company, a global pharmaceutical company.

Paige K. Robbins (53)Senior Vice President and President, Grainger Business Unit, a position assumed in January 2021. Previously, Ms. Robbins served as Senior Vice President and Chief Technology, Merchandising, Marketing, and Strategy Officer, a position assumed in November 2019, as Senior Vice President and Chief Merchandising, Marketing, Digital, Strategy Officer, a position assumed in May 2019, as Senior Vice President and Chief Digital Officer, a position assumed in September 2017, and as Senior Vice President, Global Supply Chain, Branch Network, Contact Centers and Corporate Strategy, a position assumed in 2016. Since joining Grainger in September 2010, Ms. Robbins has held various positions as a Vice President, including in the areas of Global Supply Chain and Logistics. Prior to Grainger, Ms. Robbins served as Partner and Managing Director at Boston Consulting Group, a global management consulting firm. 

Laurie R. Thomson (48)

Vice President, Controller and principal accounting officer, a position assumed in May 2021. Previously, Ms. Thomson served as Vice President, Internal Audit and Finance Continuous Improvement of the Company, a position assumed in November 2019, Vice President, Internal Audit from October 2016 to November 2019, Senior Director, Finance from June 2011 to September 2016, and Director, Internal Audit from February 2008 to June 2011. Ms. Thomson is a certified public accountant and prior to Grainger served as Director, Internal Audit at CVS Health Corporation, a pharmacy healthcare provider, and Audit Manager at Arthur Andersen LLP, a professional services firm.

9

Item 1A: Risk Factors