ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

We are a leading creator and manufacturer of food, beverage, health & biosciences, scent and pharma solutions and complementary adjacent products, including cosmetic active and natural health ingredients, which are used in a wide variety of consumer products. Our products are sold principally to manufacturers of dairy, meat, beverages, snacks, savory, sweet, baked goods and other foods, personal care products, soaps and detergents, cleaning products, perfumes and cosmetics, dietary supplements, food protection, infant and elderly nutrition, functional food, pharmaceutical and oral care products. As a result, we hold global leadership positions in the Food & Beverage, Home & Personal Care and Health & Wellness markets, and across key Tastes, Textures, Scents, Nutrition, Enzymes, Cultures, Soy Proteins, Pharmaceutical Excipients, Biocides and Probiotics categories.

On February 1, 2021, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with DuPont de Nemours, Inc. (“DuPont”), a wholly owned subsidiary of IFF merged with and into Nutrition & Biosciences, Inc. (“N&B”), a subsidiary of DuPont holding its Nutrition and Biosciences business (the “N&B Business,” and such transaction, the “N&B Transaction”). The shares issued in the merger represented approximately 55.4% of the common stock of IFF on a fully diluted basis, after giving effect to the merger, as of February 1, 2021.

Sales in 2021 were approximately $11.656 billion. Based on 2021 sales, approximately 41% were to global consumer products companies and approximately 59% were to small and mid-sized companies. During 2021, our 25 largest customers accounted for 29% of our sales. In 2021, no customer accounted for more than 10% of sales.

Our business is geographically diverse, with sales in the U.S. representing approximately 28% of sales in 2021. No other country represented more than 7% of sales.

Our audited consolidated financial information in this report for 2021 includes the results of the N&B Business effective February 1, 2021, whereas the Company’s consolidated financial information for the prior years do not include amounts related to N&B.

Our Product Offerings

Our business consists of four segments: Nourish, Health & Biosciences, Scent and Pharma Solutions.

Nourish

As a leading creator of ingredients and solutions, we help our customers deliver on the promise of healthy and delicious foods and drinks that appeal to consumers. While we are a global leader, our Nourish business operates regionally, with different formulas that reflect local taste preferences. We create products in our regional creative centers which allows us to satisfy local preferences, while also helping to ensure regulatory compliance and production standards. We develop thousands of different Nourish offerings for our customers, most of which are tailor-made, and we continually develop new formulas to meet changing consumer preferences and customer needs.

Our Nourish segment consists of most of our legacy Taste segment combined with N&B’s Food & Beverage division and the food protection business of N&B’s Health & Biosciences division. Our Nourish business spans a diversified portfolio across natural and plant-based specialty food ingredients, flavor compounds, and savory solutions and inclusions and consists of three business units: Ingredients, Flavors and Food Designs.

Ingredients include a diversified portfolio across natural and plant-based specialty food ingredients derived from herbs and plants that provide texturizing solutions used in the food industry, food protection solutions used in food and beverage products, as well as specialty soy and pea protein with value-added formulations, emulsifiers and sweeteners. Natural food protection ingredients consist of natural antioxidants and anti-microbials used for natural food preservation and shelf-life extension for beverages, cosmetic and healthcare products, pet food and feed additives.

Flavors include a range of flavor compounds and natural taste solutions that are ultimately used by our customers in savory products (soups, sauces, meat, fish, poultry, snacks, etc.), beverages (juice drinks, carbonated or flavored beverages, spirits, etc.), sweets (bakery products, candy, cereal, chewing gum, etc.), and dairy products (yogurt, ice cream, cheese, etc.). Flavors also include value-added spices and seasoning ingredients for meat, food service, convenience, alternative protein and culinary products.

 3

Food Designs include savory solution products such as spices, sauces, marinades and mixtures. Additionally, Food Designs provide inclusion products that help with taste and texture by, among other things, combining flavorings with fruit, vegetables and other natural ingredients for a wide range of food products, such as health snacks, baked goods, cereals, pastries, ice cream and other dairy products.

Health & Biosciences 

Our Health & Biosciences business consists of a biotechnology-driven portfolio of enzymes, food cultures, probiotics and specialty ingredients for food, home and personal care, and health and wellness applications.

Our Health & Biosciences business comprises N&B’s Health & Biosciences division (except the food protection business which is part of Nourish) in combination with the Natural Product Solutions business of legacy IFF. Health & Biosciences is comprised of six business units: Health, Cultures & Food Enzymes, Home & Personal Care, Animal Nutrition, Grain Processing and Microbial Control. During the third quarter of 2021, we entered into an agreement to divest the Microbial Control business. We expect that the transaction will close in the second quarter of 2022, subject to customary closing conditions.

Health provides ingredients for dietary supplements, functional food and beverage, specialized nutrition and pharma. 

Cultures & Food Enzymes provides products that aim to serve the global demand for healthy, natural, clean label and fermented food for fresh dairy, cheese, bakery and brewing products. Such products contribute to extended shelf life and stability helping our customers to improve their product offerings. The business's enzyme solutions also allow our customers to provide low sugar, high fiber and lactose-free dairy products.

Home & Personal Care produces enzymes for laundry and dishwashing detergents, cleaning and textiles to help enhance the product and process performance of products in the fabric and homecare, textiles and industrials and personal care markets. 

Animal Nutrition produces feed enzymes and animal health solutions that help to improve welfare, performance and sustainability of livestock animal farming. 

Grain Processing produces yeasts and enzymes for biofuel production and carbohydrate processing. 

Microbial Control produces biocides for controlling microbial populations for oil and gas production, home and personal care and industrial preservation markets.

Scent

Our Scent business creates fragrance compounds, fragrance ingredients and cosmetic ingredients that are integral elements in the world’s finest perfumes and best-known household and personal care products. Consumer insights science and creativity are at the heart of our Scent business, and, along with our unique portfolio of natural and synthetic ingredients, global footprint, innovative technologies and know-how, and customer intimacy, we believe make us a market leader in scent products. Our Scent business consists of our legacy Scent segment as well as our Flavor Ingredients business, formerly part of our legacy Taste business. The Scent segment is comprised of three business units: Fragrance Compounds, Fragrance Ingredients and Cosmetic Actives.

Fragrance Compounds are unique and proprietary combinations of multiple fragrance ingredients that are ultimately used by our customers in their consumer goods. Our creative and commercial teams within fragrance compounds are organized into two broad categories, fine fragrances and consumer fragrances.

Our perfumers harness creativity and leverage our innovative captive molecules, sustainable natural ingredients obtained with innovative processes, biotech ingredients, data science, and consumer insights to create unique and inspiring fragrances driving consumer preferences.

Our fine fragrances focus on perfumes and colognes, creating global and local namesake brands, from high luxury to mass market, from market leading to ultra-niche products.

Our consumer fragrances include three end-use categories of products: 

•Fabric Care, including laundry detergents, fabric softeners and specialty laundry products;

•Home Care, including household cleaners, dishwashing detergents and air fresheners; and

•Body Care, including personal wash, hair care and toiletries products.

 4

Fragrance Ingredients. Fragrance ingredients are natural and synthetic, and active and functional ingredients that are used internally and sold to third parties, including competitors, for use in the preparation of compounds. While the principal role of our fragrance ingredients facilities is to support our fragrance compounds business, we utilize excess manufacturing capacity to manufacture and sell certain fragrance ingredients to third parties, enabling us to leverage our fixed costs while maintaining the security of our supply for our perfumers and ultimately our customers. Flavor ingredients include natural flavor extracts, specialty botanical extracts, distillates, essential oils, citrus products, aroma chemicals and natural gums and resins. Such ingredients are used for food, beverage and flavors, and are often sold directly to food and beverage manufacturers who use them in producing consumer products.

Cosmetic Actives designs, develops, manufactures and markets innovative ingredients for the cosmetics and personal care industry, while offering active ingredients, functional ingredients, and delivery systems.

Pharma Solutions 

Our Pharma Solutions business produces a vast portfolio including cellulosics and seaweed-based pharma excipients, used to improve the functionality and delivery of active pharmaceutical ingredients, including controlled or modified drug release formulations, and enabling the development of more effective pharmaceutical finished dosage formats. Our excipients are used in prescription and over-the-counter pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements. Our Pharma Solutions products also serve a variety of other specialty and industrial end-uses including coatings, inks, electronics, agriculture, and consumer products. Pharma Solutions is comprised of N&B’s Pharma Solutions business.

Consumer Insights, Research and Product Development Process

The markets in which we compete require constant innovation to remain competitive. Consumer preferences tend to drive change in our markets, and as science evolves and sustainability continues to be a key factor to customers and consumers, we must continue to strengthen our research and development platforms and adapt our capabilities to provide differentiated products.

Consumer Insights

We believe that the first step to creating an innovative and unique product experience begins with gaining insight into the consumer and emerging industry trends. By developing a deep understanding of what consumers value and prefer through our consumer insight programs, we are better able to focus our research and development and creative efforts.

Our consumer science, insight and marketing teams interpret trends, monitor product launches, analyze quantitative market data and conduct numerous consumer interviews annually.

Based on this information, we develop innovative and proprietary programs to evaluate potential products that enable us to understand the emotional connections between a prospective product and the consumer. We believe this ability to pinpoint the likelihood of a product’s success translates into stronger brand equity, resulting in increased returns and greater market share gains for our customers as well as for IFF.

Research and Development

We consider our research and development infrastructure to be one of our key competencies and critical to our ability to provide differentiated products to our customers. We have strong product and application development pipelines built upon a global network that includes research and development, as well as regulatory and product stewardship capabilities.

We focus and invest substantial resources in the research and development of new and innovative molecules, compounds, formulations and technologies and the application of these to our customers’ products. Using the knowledge gained from our consumer insights programs and business unit needs, we strategically focus our resources around key research and development platforms that address or anticipate consumer needs or preferences. By aligning our capabilities and resources to these platforms, we ensure the proper support and focus for each program so that our products can be further developed and eventually accepted for commercial application.

As of December 31, 2021, we have been granted 1,346 patents in the United States, since 2000, and have 608 pending patent applications. We have developed many unique molecules and delivery systems for our customers that are used as the foundations of successful products around the world.

Our principal basic research and development activities are located in Union Beach, New Jersey; Wilmington, Delaware; Palo Alto, California; Brabrand, Denmark; and Leiden, The Netherlands. At those locations, our scientists and application engineers, while collaborating with our other research and development centers around the world, support the:

•discovery of new materials;

•development of new technologies, such as delivery systems;

 5

•creation of new compounds; and

•enhancement of existing ingredients and compounds.

As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 3,400 people globally in research and development activities.

Creative Application

Through our global network of creative centers and application laboratories, we create or adapt the basic Nourish, Health & Biosciences, Scent and Pharma Solutions that we have developed in the research and development process to commercialize for use in our customers’ consumer products. Our global creative teams consist of marketing, consumer science, consumer insights and technical application experts, from a wide range of cultures and nationalities. In close partnership with our customers’ product development groups, our creative teams create the experiences that our customers are seeking in order to satisfy consumer demands in each of their respective markets.

New product development is driven by a variety of sources including requests from our customers, who are in need of specific products for use in a new or modified consumer product, or as a result of internal initiatives stemming from our consumer insights program. Our product development team works in partnership with our scientists and researchers to optimize the consumer appeal and relevance of our offerings. We use a collaborative process between our researchers, our product development team and our customers to perfect our offerings so they are ready to be included in the final consumer product.

In addition to creating new products, our researchers and product development teams advise customers on ways to improve their existing products by moderating or substituting current ingredients with more readily accessible or less expensive materials enhancing their yield. This often results in creating a better value proposition for our customers.

Most of our formulas are treated as trade secrets and remain our proprietary assets. Our business is not materially dependent upon any individual patent, trademark or license.

Supply Chain

We strive to provide our customers with consistent and quality products on a timely and cost-effective basis by managing all aspects of the supply chain, from raw material sourcing through manufacturing, quality assurance, regulatory compliance and distribution.

Procurement

In connection with the manufacture of our products, we use natural and synthetic ingredients. As of December 31, 2021, we purchased approximately 28,500 different raw materials sourced from an extensive network of domestic and international suppliers and distributors.

Natural ingredients are derived from flowers, fruits and other botanical products, as well as from animal and marine products, and commodity crops like wheat, corn and soy. They contain varying numbers of organic chemicals that are responsible for the fragrance, flavor, antioxidant properties and nutrition of the natural products. Natural products are purchased directly from farms or in processed and semi-processed forms. Some natural products are used in compounds in the state in which they are obtained and others are used after further processing. Natural products, together with various chemicals, are also used as raw materials for the manufacture of synthetic ingredients by chemical processes.

In order to ensure our supply of raw materials, achieve favorable pricing and provide timely transparency regarding inflationary trends to our customers, we continue to focus on:

•purchasing under contract with fixed or formula-based pricing for set time periods;

•entering into hedging for raw materials we purchase that can be hedged against liquid commodity assets;

•entering into supplier relationships to gain access to supplies we would not otherwise have;

•implementing indexed pricing;

•reducing the complexity of our formulations;

•evaluating the profitability of whether to buy or make an ingredient; and

•sourcing from local countries with our own procurement professionals.

Manufacturing and Distribution

As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 210 manufacturing facilities, creative centers and application laboratories located in approximately 45 different countries. Our major manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, The Netherlands, Spain, Great Britain, Germany, Indonesia, Turkey, Brazil, Mexico, Slovenia, China, India, Ireland, Finland, Denmark, Belgium and Singapore.

 6

During the last few years, we undertook an initiative to optimize our global operations footprint to efficiently and cost-effectively deliver value to our global customers. Between 2019 and 2020, the Company completed the closure of 21 sites. During 2021, the Company completed the closure of one site. By the completion of this initiative, targeted for the end of 2022, we expect to close approximately 30 manufacturing sites.

Our supply chain initiatives are focused on increasing capacity and investing in key technologies. Within our more mature markets, we tend to focus on consolidation and cost optimization as well as the implementation of new technologies. In addition to our own manufacturing facilities, we develop relationships with third parties, including contract manufacturing organizations, that expand our access to the technologies, capabilities and capacity that we need to better serve our customers.

For more detailed information about risks related to our supply chain, please refer to Item 1A, “Risk Factors” – Supply chain disruptions, geopolitical developments or climate-change events may adversely affect our suppliers or our procurement of raw materials, and thus may impact our business and financial results.

Environmental, Social, and Governance

Since the N&B Transaction, we have been working to integrate all aspects of environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics into a combined program. As a part of our integration with N&B, we have developed an ESG roadmap, the 2030 ‘Do More Good Plan’ (“the Plan”), which aligns with IFF’s purpose of applying science and creativity for a better world. The Plan includes four key focus areas:

Environmental

Supporting environmental stewardship across our operations, including commitments to climate action, zero waste to landfill, water stewardship solutions and an acceleration of our responsible sourcing practices by promoting regenerative ecosystems and achieving zero deforestation for strategic raw material supply chains.

Social

Advancing our commitment to people and communities by strengthening diversity, equity & inclusion within our workforce, while continuously improving our safety program by striving for an injury-free workplace, and achieving world-class safety performance. Within our responsible sourcing program, the Company will continue to promote human rights and animal welfare, while supporting farmers’ livelihoods and ensuring prosperous and equitable value chains.

Governance 

Continuing our commitment to good governance which starts with our Board and Executive Committee and is supported by a strong governance framework, including having a robust program to ensure compliance with our Codes of Conduct and adherence to the highest standards of ethics, integrity, honesty and respect in our dealings internally and with our business partners. To enhance accountability in line with evolving stakeholder expectations, the Company plans to launch ESG metrics tied to executive compensation, while expanding oversight for ESG at the Board of Directors level. IFF remains on track to increase our transparency in disclosures and key performance indicators.

Sustainable Solutions

Focusing on the sustainability value proposition and growth for all new innovations as we assist customers in achieving their own ESG goals by delivering an expanded suite of sustainable solutions for the market.

In 2021, our Company continued to achieve notable recognitions in these areas. We were named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for the second consecutive year, a family of best-in-class benchmarks for investors who recognize that sustainable business practices are critical to generating long-term shareholder value. Once again named to both the 2021 World Index and the North America Index, this distinction validates IFF’s leadership position in sustainability performance and underscores our commitment to executing on key ESG priorities. IFF was also recognized by the Human Rights Campaign as a 2021 Best Place to Work for LBGTQ Equality and named among the 2021 Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion by Disability:IN, for the third and second consecutive years, respectively. For the first time in 2021, we were also recognized by CDP as a triple A list company for corporate transparency and action on climate change, water stewardship and deforestation. IFF continues to be named one of Barron’s 100 Most Sustainable Companies and listed in the FTSE4Good Index series as well as in the Euronext Vigeo World 120 Index for ESG performance.

For more detailed information about our ESG programs and performance, please refer to our annual sustainability report.

 7

Governmental Regulation

We develop, produce and market our products in a number of jurisdictions around the world and are subject to federal, regional and local legislation and regulations in various countries. Our products, which among other industries, are intended for use in food, beverage, pharmaceutical and dietary supplements, home and personal care, feed, cosmetics industries, are subject to strict quality and regulatory standards and environmental laws and regulations. We in turn are required to meet strict standards which, in recent years, have become increasingly stringent and affect both existing as well as new products. While the cost of compliance with such laws and regulations leads to higher overall capital expenditure, which can be significant in certain periods, we do not currently anticipate any material capital expenditures necessary to comply with such laws and regulations. We continue to monitor existing and pending laws and regulations and while the impact of regulatory changes cannot be predicted with certainty, compliance has not had, and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on capital expenditure, earnings or competitive position.

Our products and operations are subject to regulation by governmental agencies in each of the markets in which we operate. These agencies include (1) the Food and Drug Administration and equivalent international agencies that regulate flavors, pharmaceutical excipients and other ingredients in consumer products, (2) the Environmental Protection Agency and equivalent international agencies that regulate our manufacturing facilities, as well as fragrance products (including encapsulation systems) and microbial products, (3) the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and equivalent international agencies that regulate the working conditions in our manufacturing, research laboratories and creative centers, (4) local and international agencies that regulate trade and customs, (5) the Drug Enforcement Administration and other local or international agencies that regulate controlled chemicals that we use in our operations, (6) the Chemical Registration/Notification authorities that regulate chemicals that we use in, or transport to, the various countries in which we manufacture and/or market our products, and (7) the U.S. Department of Agriculture and equivalent international authorities with respect to, among other things, labeling of consumer products. We have seen an increase in registration and reporting requirements concerning the use of certain chemicals in a number of countries, such as Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (“REACH”) regulations in the European Union, as well as similar regulations in other countries.

In addition, we are subject to various rules relating to health, work safety and the environment at the local and international levels in the various countries in which we operate. Our manufacturing facilities throughout the world are subject to environmental standards relating to air emissions, sewage discharges, the use of hazardous materials, waste disposal practices and clean-up of existing environmental contamination. In recent years, there has been an increase in the stringency of environmental regulation and enforcement of environmental standards, and the costs of compliance have risen significantly, a trend we expect will continue in the future.

For more detailed information about risks related to governmental regulation applicable to the Company, please refer to Item 1A, “Risk Factors” – If we are unable to comply with regulatory requirements and industry standards, including those regarding product safety, quality, efficacy and environmental impact, we could incur significant costs and suffer reputational harm which could adversely affect results of operations.

Competition

The markets for our products are part of a larger market that supplies a wide variety of ingredients and compounds used in consumer products. The broader market includes functional foods and food additives, including seasonings, texturizers, spices, enzymes, certain food-related commodities, and fortified products, as well as natural ingredients, nutritional ingredients, supplements and active cosmetic ingredients. Our recent acquisitions have also expanded our reach in products within the functional food ingredient market, including ingredients focused on improving the health and wellness characteristics of a consumer good, the dietary supplement, pharmaceutical ingredient, infant nutrition markets and the cosmetic actives market.

The global market for our products has expanded, primarily as a result of an increase in demand for, and an increase in the variety of, consumer products.

The market for our products is highly competitive. Our main competitors consist of (1) other large global companies, such as Givaudan, Firmenich Symrise, Kerry, ADM, Novozymes, Chr. Hansen, (2) mid-sized companies, (3) numerous regional and local manufacturers and (4) consumer product companies who may develop their own competing products.

We believe that our ability to create products with the sustainability related attributes customers expect and compete successfully in the various sub-market is based on:

•our in-depth understanding of consumers,

•vertical integration,

•innovation and technological advances from our research and development activities and, as applicable, our scientists,

•our ability to tailor products to customers’ needs,

 8

•our ability to manufacture products on a global scale, and

•broad-based regulatory capabilities.

In certain industries, large multi-national customers and, increasingly, mid-sized customers, may limit the number of their suppliers by placing some on “core lists,” giving them priority for development and production of their new or modified products. To compete more successfully, we must make continued investments in customer relationships and tailor our research and development efforts to anticipate customers’ needs, provide effective service and secure and maintain inclusion on these “core lists.”

Private label manufacturers, mostly medium-sized, local or small food manufacturers, constitute a growing segment in certain markets where we are active. Over the last decade, with the strengthening of supermarket chains, online platforms and growing consumer price consciousness, consumption of private label products has grown at a faster rate than the brand food industry rate. We believe that new business opportunities will continue to arise from these clients as they are increasing their demand for products that are similar to existing products in the market, distinctive premium products, as well as more innovative products.

Our People

The success of our business is built on our talented employees. At December 31, 2021, we had approximately 24,000 employees worldwide, of whom approximately 5,300 are employed in the United States.

Culture and Values

Our culture is based on our five corporate values of empowerment, expertise, innovation, integrity and responsibility, and the expression of these values can be seen and felt throughout our history. Our employees appreciate that they contribute to products that touch and enhance the lives of millions of people around the world. In 2021, we implemented an employee engagement initiative through our cultural ambassador program to build a common identity and shared purpose, drive positive organizational change, strengthen engagement and motivation. Cultural ambassadors were nominated by each site and led programs and sessions on promotion of the IFF values and recognition of individuals who exemplified such values. To date, approximately half of the IFF employees world-wide have attended such sessions.

Leadership and Development

Our leadership development efforts empower employees to become forward-looking, inspiring and capable decision-makers, agents of change and great leaders. To cultivate our employees’ talent and build sustainable long-lasting careers at IFF, we provide tools that enable our employees to envision their career journeys in the form of articulated career “ladders” and “frameworks”. We offer corresponding development opportunities to include specialized courses for employees globally by partnering with leading institutions and universities to help provide the latest training and development offerings at all levels. We also offer to our employees an extensive library of on-demand courses and materials on leadership, management and professional skills development. Those learning resources are integrated into our human capital platform, allowing managers and employees to establish digitalized learning plans that are ultimately captured as a part of their employee profile. Further, those offerings complement our talent acquisition strategy and organized and personalized feedback process, supported by industry-leading assessment tools.

Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion (DE&I)

Our DE&I vision: “Your Uniqueness Unleashes Our Potential.” sets the tone for our colleagues to be empowered to bring their whole authentic selves to work. To this end, we are dedicated to nurturing a truly inclusive and equitable culture through the three pillars of our DE&I mission:

•Our People embody the mosaic of the markets we serve and are empowered to transform the future

•Our Spirit nurtures an inclusive and fair culture where every voice is valued and heard

•Our World embraces diversity of thought and strives to do more good, creating a better future for all

 9

In 2021, our primary focus was harmonizing the two corresponding DE&I programs from the legacy N&B and IFF organizations. We reorganized IFF’s DE&I Steering Committee to ensure there was equitable representation of our employee population, including heritage N&B colleagues. We continued our commitment of gender equality using the Economic Dividends for Gender Equity Methodological Framework. IFF was also listed as a “Best Place to Work for Disability Inclusion” for the second consecutive year with a 100% score; part of this achievement was due to the fact that we have launched a Disability Inclusion Taskforce that is auditing our policies & practices for any opportunities to be more inclusive of People with Disabilities. Moreover, IFF maintained our “Best Place to Work for LGBTIQ+ Equality” with 100% scores in Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index and the HRC Equidad Mexico and also achieved a Bronze Level recognition form the India Workplace Equality Index. Throughout 2021, our employee resource groups known as “colleague communities” continued to thrive and mature. Our existing communities; Women@IFF, Prisma, Black Excellence, NextGen@IFF and SERVE (which supports veteran and first responder issues), hosted several events throughout the year and continued to expand their footprint around the globe through chapter development & new members. We were also excited to launch our newest communities, such as Asian Colleagues for Equity, Empowerment, & Excellence, IFFers UNIDOS, and AccessAbility. Lastly, we hosted our first annual Global Inclusion Week delivering over 5,000 hours of training, which further advances our journey towards full inclusion.

Occupational Health & Safety

Employee safety is one of the cornerstones of our business. Our occupational health and safety management system requires and encourages employees and supervised contractors at sites globally to uphold IFF’s protocols, report any incidents and suggest improvements that will increase the safety of work sites. Our safety management system in each country is based on local regulations. In the absence of country-specific requirements, IFF guidelines are implemented, which are based on U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) standards. To work toward a safer workplace, we have put in place a set of protocols and programs related to three areas of focus: (a) safety governance (setting and updating comprehensive safety policies and procedures), (b) safety training of employees on local requirements and IFF policies, and (c) safety culture characterized by awareness and communication. In response to the novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”) pandemic, we have been following the requirements of governmental authorities and taking additional preventative and protective measures to ensure the safety of our workforce. Moreover, we have developed return-to-workplace protocols and mandatory site guidelines to continue to protect the health and safety of employees at each location and to promote an orderly and phased return for employees who have been working from home.

Availability of Reports

We make available free of charge on or through the “Investors” link on our website, www.iff.com, all materials that we file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. During the period covered by this Form 10-K, we made all such materials available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with the SEC.

The SEC maintains an Internet website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC.

A copy of our By-Laws, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Codes of Conduct, and the charters of the Audit Committee, Human Capital and Compensation Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee and Innovation and Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors are posted on the “Investors” section of our website, www.iff.com.

Our principal executive offices are located at 521 West 57th Street, New York, New York 10019 and 200 Powder Mill Road, Wilmington, DE 19803.

 10

Executive Officers of Registrant

The current executive officers of the Company, as of February 28, 2022, are listed below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Frank Clyburn has served as our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors since February 14, 2022. Mr. Clyburn joined us from Merck, where he served as Executive Vice President and President of Human Health. While at Merck since 2008, Mr. Clyburn held a number of positions, including Chief Commercial Officer, inaugural president of the company’s Global Oncology business, and President of the Primary Care and Women’s Health businesses. Before joining Merck, Mr. Clyburn was Vice President of the Oncology and Internal Medicine business units at Sanofi Aventis and held a wide range of leadership roles with that company.

Glenn Richter has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since September 2021. Prior to joining IFF, Mr. Richter was Chief Financial Officer of TIAA, having worked at the company in various leadership roles from April 2015 to July 2021. Previously, Mr. Richter worked for Nuveen Investments as Chief Operating Officer and Chief Administrative Officer and before joining Nuveen Investments in 2006, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer for RR Donnelley & Sons, and prior to that he was Executive Vice President & CFO of Sears, Roebuck and Co. and Chairman of Sears Canada, a publicly-traded affiliate.

Nicolas Mirzayantz has served as our President, Nourish since September 2021 and, previously, as President, Scent since October 2018. Mr. Mirzayantz originally joined our Company in 1988 and was our Group President, Fragrances from January 2007 to October 2018. Mr. Mirzayantz has also served as a member of our Temporary Office of the Chief Executive Officer, our Senior Vice President, Fine Fragrance and Beauty Care and Regional Manager, North America, our Senior Vice President, Fine Fragrance and Beauty Care, and our Vice President Global Fragrance Business Development.

Simon Herriott has served as our President, Health & Biosciences since February 2021. From 2019 to February 2021, Mr. Herriott was Vice President and Global Business Director, Health & Biosciences for the N&B Business and from 2016 to 2019, he served as Global Business Director, Bioactives, Industrial Biosciences and Vice President, Danisco Inc. Mr. Herriott was employed by DuPont’s predecessor or formerly affiliated companies for 15 years and held a variety of roles, including Global Business Director, Biomaterials, Industrial Biosciences and leadership positions for various businesses that are currently part of DuPont’s Non-Core segment.

Christophe de Villeplee has served as our President, Scent since September 2021. Mr. de Villeplee previously served as President, Global Consumer Fragrances. He originally joined our Company in 1999 and has previously held positions of increasing responsibility, including sales, group country management, regional general management of fragrances, North America, and vice-president of Global Fine Fragrances and Beauty Care.

Angela Strzelecki has served as President, Pharma Solutions since February 2021. From 2019 to February 2021, Dr. Strzelecki was Platform Leader, Pharma Solutions for the N&B Business. From 2013 to 2019, Dr. Strzelecki held a variety of leadership positions at Dupont or its formerly affiliated companies, including Platform Leader, Pharma Solutions for the Nutrition and Health business, Planning Director – Corporate Planning and M&A , Global Business Director – Electronics & Communications, and the North America Business Director – Building Innovations.

 11

Francisco Fortanet has served as our Executive Vice President, Global Operations Officer since August 2015. Prior to his current role, Mr. Fortanet held various leadership positions within the Company, including serving as Frutarom Integration lead and Senior Vice President, Operations, Vice President, Global Manufacturing Compounding, Vice President, Global Manufacturing, Regional Director of North America Operations, the Project Manager of a special project in Ireland, and as Plant Manager in Hazlet, New Jersey. Mr. Fortanet started his career in IFF-Mexico.

Jennifer Johnson has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel since February 2021. From 2019 to February 2021, Dr. Johnson served as Associate General Counsel for the N&B Business. Dr. Johnson joined DuPont’s predecessor or formerly affiliated companies in 2013, where she led the legal team for DuPont’s former Industrial Biosciences business as Associate General Counsel and subsequently served as Assistant Chief Intellectual Property Counsel for Industrial Biosciences. Prior to joining DuPont, Dr. Johnson was a Partner at the law firm of Finnegan, Henderson, Farabow, Garrett & Dunner, L.L.P.

Susana Suarez-Gonzalez has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources and Diversity & Inclusion Officer since February 2021. From November 2016 to February 2021, Dr. Suarez-Gonzalez served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer. From 2014 to 2016, Dr. Suarez-Gonzalez was Senior Vice President, Global Operations & Centers Expertise, Human Resources of Fluor Corporation, an engineering construction company. Dr. Suarez-Gonzalez began her career at Fluor Corporation in 1991, and during her 25 years with the company, she held various leadership positions across several business groups and functions including construction, marketing, sales, project engineering and human resources.

Vic Verma has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer since February 2021 and had previously served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer from 2016 to February 2021. Before joining the Company, Mr. Verma served as Vice President of Global Infrastructure Operations at American Express, a multinational financial services company. Prior to that, Mr. Verma held several other leadership positions at American Express as well as Vice President, Division CIO and management consulting roles with GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol Myers Squibb and PricewaterhouseCoopers.

Gregory Yep has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Research & Development, Global Integrated Solutions & Sustainability Officer since February 2021. From June 2016 to February 2021, he served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Research & Development and Sustainability Officer. From January 2015 to June 2016, Dr. Yep was Senior Vice President of Research, Development & Applications with The Kerry Group, a taste and nutrition company. Prior to The Kerry Group, Dr. Yep was Senior Vice President of R&D at PepsiCo, a multinational food, snack and beverage corporation, and was Global Vice President, Application Technologies at Givaudan Flavors and Fragrances, a multinational manufacturer of flavors, fragrances and active cosmetic ingredients. Earlier in his career, Dr. Yep was at McCormick & Company, a flavor, seasonings and spices company, where he held executive roles of increasing responsibility in food science.

Michael DeVeau has served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations & Communications Officer since February 2021 and had previously served as our Vice President, Investor Relations, Communications, and Chief of Staff from September 2014 to February 2021, as well as divisional Chief Financial Officer, Scent from 2018 to 2020 and head of Corporate Strategy from 2016 to 2018. Since joining the Company in 2009 as head of investor relations, Mr. DeVeau has held various roles of increasing scope and responsibility in communications, finance and strategy. Prior to joining the Company, he served in leadership positions in investor relations, finance and corporate development at PepsiCo, a multinational food, snack and beverage company. Mr. DeVeau began his career as an Equity Research Analyst at Citigroup Investment Research.

ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.