Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

(Unaudited)

(Dollar amounts in millions)

Interest Rates

The table below provides information about the Company’s debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. Substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in United States dollars. The fair value of fixed rate debt was approximately $130 million greater than carrying value at December 31, 2021 and approximately $170 million greater than carrying value at December 31, 2020. The fair value of the fixed rate debt was based on quoted prices in an active market. The fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1The weighted average interest rate for the average net commercial paper outstanding activity during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 was .2% and 2.0%, respectively. 

Derivative Financial Instruments

The Company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates and foreign currency. In the normal course of business, the Company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. The Company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. It is the Company’s policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. Information regarding cash flow hedges (including interest rate hedges) and fair value hedges is provided in Note S beginning on page 117 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference into this section.

58
PART II

Investment in Foreign Subsidiaries

We view our investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment. This investment may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. Our net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign operations with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar at December 31 is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 1 We acquired three European companies in 2021. Information regarding these acquisitions is provided in Note R beginning on page 116 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference into this section.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.