Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE RISK

Due to the global nature of our operations, we are exposed to currency exchange rate changes, which may cause fluctuations in earnings and cash flows. Fluctuations in the currency exchange rates of currency exposures that are unhedged, such as in certain emerging markets, may result in future earnings and cash flow volatility. The gross notional amount of all currency exchange rate derivative instruments outstanding at April 29, 2022 and April 30, 2021 was $13.8 billion and $14.7 billion, respectively. At April 29, 2022, these contracts were in a net unrealized gain position of $586 million. Additional information regarding our currency exchange rate derivative instruments is included in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all currency exchange rate derivative contracts at April 29, 2022 and April 30, 2021 indicates that, if the U.S. dollar uniformly strengthened/weakened by 10 percent against all currencies, it would have the following impact on the fair value of these contracts:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Any gains and losses on the fair value of derivative contracts would generally be offset by gains and losses on the underlying transactions. These offsetting gains and losses are not reflected in the above analysis. 

INTEREST RATE RISK

We are subject to interest rate risk on our short-term investments and our borrowings. We manage interest rate risk in the aggregate, while focusing on our immediate and intermediate liquidity needs. Our debt portfolio at April 29, 2022 was comprised of debt predominantly denominated in U.S. dollars and Euros, of which substantially all is fixed rate debt. We are also exposed to interest rate changes affecting our investments in interest rate sensitive instruments, which include our marketable debt securities.

A sensitivity analysis of the impact on our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments of a hypothetical 10 basis point change in interest rates, as compared to interest rates at April 29, 2022 and April 30, 2021, would have the following impact on the fair value of these instruments:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For a discussion of current market conditions and the impact on our financial condition and results of operations, see the “Liquidity” section of the Management's Discussion and Analysis in "Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For additional discussion of market risk, see Notes 5 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

50
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data