Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

REGULATORY AND LEGISLATIVE RISKS

Significant governmental legislation, regulation, and Executive Orders over commercial, tax, operating and environmental matters could affect us, our customers, and the markets we serve. Congress can enact laws that could increase economic regulation of the industry. Similarly, regulations promulgated by agencies and the issuance of Executive Orders can affect us, our customers, and the markets we serve. Railroads presently are subject to commercial regulation by the STB, which has jurisdiction to varying extents over rates, routes, customer access provisions, fuel surcharges, conditions of service, and the extension or abandonment of rail lines. The STB also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger, or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers. Additional economic regulation of the rail industry by Congress or the STB, whether under new or existing laws, could have a significant negative impact on our ability to negotiate prices for rail services, on railway operating revenues, and on the efficiency of our operations. Such additional industry regulation, as well as enactment of any new tax laws, could also negatively impact cash flows from operating activities and, therefore, could result in reduced capital spending on our rail network or abandonment of lines. 

Railroads are also subject to the enactment of laws by Congress and regulation by the DOT and the DHS, which regulate most aspects of our operations related to safety and security. The Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2015, and the implementing regulations promulgated by the FRA required us (and each other Class I railroad) to implement an interoperable positive train control system (PTC) on main lines over which five million or more gross tons of annual traffic and certain hazardous materials are transported, and on any main lines over which intercity or commuter rail passenger transportation is regularly provided. We completed our PTC implementation prior to the December 31, 2020 deadline. PTC is designed to prevent train-to-train collisions, speed-related derailments, and certain other accidents caused by human error, but it will not prevent all types of train accidents or incidents. The PTC system will continue to result in additional operating costs and capital expenditures, and may result in increased claims and litigation costs.

Our operations are subject to extensive federal and state environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things: emissions to the air; discharges to waterways or groundwater supplies; handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and other materials; and, the cleanup of hazardous material or petroleum releases. The risk of incurring environmental liability, for acts and omissions, past, present, and future, is inherent in the railroad business. This risk includes property owned by us, whether currently or in the past, that is or has been subject to a variety of uses, including our railroad operations and other industrial activity by past owners or our past and present tenants. 

Environmental problems that are latent or undisclosed may exist on these properties, and we could incur environmental liabilities or costs, the amount and materiality of which cannot be estimated reliably at this time, with 

K11

respect to one or more of these properties. Moreover, lawsuits and claims involving other unidentified environmental sites and matters are likely to arise from time to time. 

OPERATIONAL RISKS

Pandemics, epidemics or endemic diseases could further impact us, our customers, our supply chain and our operations. The magnitude and duration of a pandemic, epidemic or endemic disease, and its impact on our customers and general economic conditions will influence the demand for our services and affect our revenues. In addition, such outbreaks could affect our operations and business continuity if a significant number of our essential employees, overall or in a key location, are quarantined from contraction of or exposure to the disease or if governmental orders prevent our employees or critical suppliers (including individuals that have not received mandated vaccinations) from working. Our compliance with vaccine mandates could lead to employee absences, resignations, labor disputes or work stoppages. The COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted the economy and continues to generate economic uncertainty. Future pandemics, epidemics or endemic diseases may cause similar consequences. To the extent such diseases adversely affects our business and financial results, they may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in the risk factors included herein, or may affect our operating and financial results in a manner that is not presently known to us. 

A significant cybersecurity incident or other disruption to our technology infrastructure could disrupt our business operations. We rely on information technology, and improvements in that technology, in all aspects of our business. If we experience significant disruption or failure of one or more of information technology systems operated by us or under control of third parties, including computer hardware, software, and communications equipment, we could experience a service interruption or other operational difficulties. Although we maintain comprehensive security programs designed to protect our information technology systems, we are continually targeted by threat actors attempting to access our networks. While we have experienced cybersecurity events that have had minimal impact, future events may result in more significant impacts to business operations. These potentially impactful events could include unauthorized access to our systems, viruses, ransomware, and/or compromise, acquisition, or destruction of our data. We also could be impacted by cybersecurity events targeting third parties that we rely on for business operations, including third party vendors that have access to our systems or data and third parties in our supply chain. Such a direct or indirect cybersecurity incident could interrupt our service, cause safety failures or operational difficulties, decrease revenues, increase operating costs, impact our efficiency, damage our corporate reputation, and/or expose us to litigation or government investigations, which could result in penalties, fines or judgments. In addition, our failure to comply with privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in government investigations and proceedings against us, or litigation, resulting in adverse reputational impacts, penalties, and legal liability.

Our business may be seriously harmed if we fail to develop, implement, maintain, upgrade, enhance, protect and integrate our information technology systems.  If we do not have sufficient capital to develop, acquire or implement new technology, we may suffer a competitive disadvantage within the rail industry and with companies providing alternative modes of transportation service.

As a common carrier by rail, we must offer to transport hazardous materials, regardless of risk. Transportation of certain hazardous materials could create catastrophic losses in terms of personal injury and property (including environmental) damage and compromise critical parts of our rail network. The costs of a catastrophic rail accident involving hazardous materials could exceed our insurance coverage. We have obtained insurance for potential losses for third-party liability and first-party property damages (see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements); however, insurance is available from a limited number of insurers and may not continue to be available or, if available, may not be obtainable on terms acceptable to us. 

We face competition from other transportation providers. We are subject to competition from motor carriers, railroads and, to a lesser extent, ships, barges, and pipelines, on the basis of transit time, pricing, and quality and reliability of service. While we have used primarily internal resources to build or acquire and maintain our rail system, trucks and barges have been able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any future improvements, expenditures, legislation, or regulation materially increasing the quality or reducing the cost of alternative modes of transportation in the regions in which we operate (such as granting materially greater latitude 

K12

for motor carriers with respect to size or weight limitations or adoption of autonomous commercial vehicles) could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete with other modes of transportation. 

Capacity constraints could negatively impact our service and operating efficiency. We could experience capacity constraints on our rail network related to increased demand for rail services, locomotive or employee shortages, severe weather, congestion on other railroads, including passenger activities, or impacts from changes to our network structure or composition. Such constraints could result in operational inefficiencies or adversely affect our operations. 

Significant increases in demand for rail services could result in the unavailability of qualified personnel and resources like locomotives. Changes in workforce demographics, training requirements, and availability of qualified personnel, particularly for engineers and conductors, could have a negative impact on our ability to meet short-term demand for rail service. Unpredicted increases in demand for rail services may exacerbate such risks and could negatively impact our operational efficiency. 

Constraints on the supply chain or the operations of carriers with which we interchange may adversely affect our operations. Our ability to provide rail service to customers in the U.S. and Canada depends in large part upon a functioning global supply chain and our ability to maintain collaborative relationships with connecting carriers (including shortlines and regional railroads) with respect to, among other matters, freight rates, revenue division, car supply and locomotive availability, data exchange and communications, reciprocal switching, interchange, and trackage rights. Deterioration in the supply chain or operations of or service provided by connecting carriers, or in our relationship with those connecting carriers, could result in our inability to meet our customers’ demands or require us to use alternate train routes, which could result in significant additional costs and network inefficiencies. Additionally, any significant consolidations, mergers or operational changes among other railroads may significantly redefine our market access and reach. 

The vast majority of our employees belong to labor unions, and labor agreements, strikes, or work stoppages could adversely affect our operations. Approximately 80% of our railroad employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. If our craft employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage, or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations. Additionally, future national labor agreements, or renegotiation of labor agreements or provisions of labor agreements, could significantly increase our costs for health care, wages, and other benefits. 

We may be affected by terrorism or war. Any terrorist attack, or other similar event, any government response thereto, and war or risk of war could cause significant business interruption. Because we play a critical role in the nation’s transportation system, we could become the target of such an attack or have a significant role in the government’s preemptive approach or response to an attack or war. 

Although we currently maintain insurance coverage for third-party liability arising out of war and acts of terrorism, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for first-party property damage and damage to property in our care, custody, or control caused by certain acts of terrorism. In addition, premiums for some or all of our current insurance programs covering these losses could increase dramatically, or insurance coverage for certain losses could be unavailable to us in the future. 

We may be affected by supply constraints resulting from disruptions in the fuel markets or the nature of some of our supplier markets. We consumed over 380 million gallons of diesel fuel in 2021. Fuel availability could be affected by any limitation in the fuel supply or by any imposition of mandatory allocation or rationing regulations. A severe fuel supply shortage arising from production curtailments, increased demand in existing or emerging foreign markets, disruption of oil imports, disruption of domestic refinery production, damage to refinery or pipeline infrastructure, political unrest, war or other factors could impact us as well as our customers and other transportation companies.

Due to the capital-intensive nature, as well as the industry-specific requirements of the rail industry, high barriers of entry exist for potential new suppliers of core railroad items, such as locomotives and rolling stock equipment. Additionally, we compete with other industries for available capacity and raw materials used in the production of 

K13

locomotives and certain track and rolling stock materials. Changes in the competitive landscapes of these limited supplier markets could result in increased prices or significant shortages of materials.

LITIGATION RISKS

We may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, commercial disputes, freight loss and other property damage, and other matters. Job-related personal injury and occupational claims are subject to the Federal Employer’s Liability Act (FELA), which is applicable only to railroads. FELA’s fault-based tort system produces results that are unpredictable and inconsistent as compared with a no-fault worker’s compensation system. The variability inherent in this system could result in actual costs being different from the liability recorded. 

A catastrophic rail accident, whether on our lines or another carrier’s, involving any or all of release of hazardous materials, freight loss, property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability could compromise critical parts of our rail network. Losses associated with such an accident involving us could exceed our insurance coverage, resulting in a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Any material changes to current litigation trends could also have a material adverse effect on our liquidity to the extent not covered by insurance. 

We have obtained insurance for potential losses for third-party liability and first-party property damages (see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements); however, insurance is available from a limited number of insurers and may not continue to be available or, if available, may not be obtainable on terms acceptable to us. 

CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS

Severe weather and disasters have caused, and could again cause, significant business interruptions and expenditures. Severe weather conditions and other natural phenomena resulting from changing weather patterns and rising sea levels or other causes, including hurricanes, floods, fires, landslides, extreme temperatures, significant precipitation, and earthquakes, have caused, and may again cause damage to our network, our workforce to be unavailable and us to be unable to use our equipment. Additionally, shifts in weather patterns caused by climate change are expected to increase the frequency, severity or duration of certain adverse weather conditions, which could cause more significant business interruptions that result in increased costs, increased liabilities, and decreased revenues. 

Concern over climate change has led to significant federal, state, and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on GHG emissions, including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating costs and decrease the amount of traffic we handle. 

In addition, legislation and regulation related to GHG emissions could negatively affect the markets we serve and our customers. Even without legislation or regulation, government incentives and adverse publicity relating to GHG emissions could negatively affect the markets for certain of the commodities we carry and our customers that (1) use commodities we carry to produce energy, including coal, (2) use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities we carry, or (3) manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy associated with GHG emissions. 

MACROECONOMIC AND MARKET RISKS

We may be affected by general economic conditions. Negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions, including reduced import and export volumes, could affect the producers and consumers of the commodities we carry. Economic conditions could also result in bankruptcies of one or more large customers. 

We may be affected by energy prices. Volatility in energy prices could have a significant effect on a variety of items including, but not limited to: the economy; demand for transportation services; business related to the energy sector, including crude oil, natural gas, and coal; fuel prices; and, fuel surcharges. 

K14

The state of capital markets could adversely affect our liquidity. We rely on the capital markets to provide some of our capital requirements, including the issuance of debt instruments and the sale of certain receivables. Significant instability or disruptions of the capital markets, including the credit markets, or deterioration of our financial position due to internal or external factors could restrict or eliminate our access to, and/or significantly increase the cost of, various financing sources, including bank credit facilities and issuance of corporate bonds. Instability or disruptions of the capital markets and deterioration of our financial position, alone or in combination, could also result in a reduction of our credit rating to below investment grade, which could prohibit or restrict us from accessing external sources of short- and long-term debt financing and/or significantly increase the associated costs.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

In 2007, various antitrust class actions filed against us and other Class I railroads in various Federal district courts regarding fuel surcharges were consolidated in the District of Columbia by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. In 2012, the court certified the case as a class action. The defendant railroads appealed this certification, and the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia vacated the District Court’s decision and remanded the case for further consideration. On October 10, 2017, the District Court denied class certification. The decision was upheld by the Court of Appeals on August 16, 2019. Since that decision, various individual cases have been filed in multiple jurisdictions and also consolidated in the District of Columbia. We believe the allegations in the complaints are without merit and intend to vigorously defend the cases. We do not believe the outcome of these proceedings will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity.

In 2018, a lawsuit was filed against one of our subsidiaries by the minority owner in a jointly-owned terminal railroad company in which our subsidiary has the majority ownership. The lawsuit alleged violations of various state laws and federal antitrust laws. It is reasonably possible that we could incur a loss in the case; however, we intend to vigorously defend the case and believe that we will prevail. The potential range of loss cannot be estimated at this time.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.

K15

Information About Our Executive Officers

Our executive officers generally are elected and designated annually by the Board of Directors (Board) at its first meeting held after the annual meeting of stockholders, and they hold office until their successors are elected. Executive officers also may be elected and designated throughout the year as the Board considers appropriate. There are no family relationships among our officers, nor any arrangement or understanding between any officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected. The following table sets forth certain information, at February 1, 2022, relating to our officers.

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

K16

PART II

NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

STOCK INFORMATION

Common Stock is owned by 20,616 stockholders of record as of December 31, 2021, and is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “NSC.”

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Of this amount, 437 represent shares tendered by employees in connection with the exercise of stock options under the stockholder-approved Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP).

(2)On September 26, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 50 million shares of Common Stock through December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2021, 8.0 million shares remain authorized for repurchase.

K17

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Norfolk Southern Corporation and Subsidiaries

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes.

OVERVIEW

We are one of the nation’s premier transportation companies, moving goods and materials that help drive the U.S. economy. We connect customers to markets and communities to economic opportunity with safe, reliable, and cost-effective shipping solutions. Our Norfolk Southern Railway Company subsidiary operates in 22 states and the District of Columbia. We are a major transporter of industrial products, including agriculture, forest and consumer products, chemicals, and metals and construction materials. In addition, in the East we serve every major container port and operate the most extensive intermodal network. We are also a principal carrier of coal, automobiles, and automotive parts. 

During 2021, revenue growth and the absence of two prior-year charges resulted in substantial increases in operating income, net income and earnings per share. Our current year results compare favorably to the prior year, during which there was a pandemic-induced decline in demand which resulted in reduced earnings. 

The COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact the U.S. and global economies and has resulted in ongoing supply chain challenges. We are monitoring and reacting to the evolving nature of the pandemic, governmental responses, and their impacts on our business, including employee availability. We remain committed to protecting our employees, operating safely, and providing excellent transportation service products for our customers.

SUMMARIZED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income from railway operations increased in 2021 compared to 2020, the result of a 14% increase in railway operating revenues and a 1% reduction in railway operating expenses. Revenue growth was driven by increased average revenue per unit and higher volumes, the result of improved customer demand. The decline in railway operating expenses was largely due to the absence of two charges, as 2020 results were adversely impacted by a $385 million loss on asset disposal related to locomotives and a $99 million impairment charge related to an equity method investment. For more information on these charges, see Notes 7 and 6, respectively. Higher fuel costs, purchased services, and compensation and benefits expense mostly offset the reduction associated with these charges. Additionally, gains on the sale of operating properties increased compared to the prior year. The 48% increase in income from railway operations drove comparable increases in net income and diluted earnings per share. Our railway operating ratio (a measure of the amount of operating revenues consumed by operating expenses) decreased to 60.1 percent. 

Income from railway operations declined in 2020 compared to 2019 as railway operating revenues fell 13% which exceeded a 7% reduction in operating expenses. Railway operating revenues declined as lower customer demand resulted in reduced volume. Additionally, negative mix and lower fuel surcharge revenue, partially offset by increased pricing, led to lower average revenue per unit. Railway operating expenses decreased due to declines in 

K18

fuel price and consumption, reduced employment levels, lower volumes and operational efficiency improvements. These decreases in expenses were partially offset by the impact of the aforementioned charges. 

The following tables adjust our 2020 U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) financial results to exclude the effects of the loss on asset disposal and investment impairment. The income tax effects on these non-GAAP adjustments were calculated based on the applicable tax rates to which the non-GAAP adjustments relate. We use these non-GAAP financial measures internally and believe this information provides useful supplemental information to investors to facilitate making period-to-period comparisons by excluding the 2020 charges. While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating our business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the table below, references to 2020 results and related comparisons use the adjusted, non-GAAP results from the table above. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

K19

DETAILED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Railway Operating Revenues

The following tables present a three-year comparison of revenues, volumes (units), and average revenue per unit by commodity group. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

K20

Revenues increased $1.4 billion in 2021 and decreased $1.5 billion in 2020 compared to the prior years. Higher revenue for 2021 was the result of increased average revenue per unit, driven by pricing gains, higher fuel surcharge revenue, increased intermodal storage service charges and improved mix, as well as volume growth. In 2020, lower revenue was the result of decreased volumes and lower fuel surcharge revenue, partially offset by pricing gains. 

The table below reflects the components of the revenue change by major commodity group. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Approximately 90% of our revenue base is covered by contracts that include negotiated fuel surcharges. These revenues totaled $622 million, $349 million, and $578 million in 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively.

MERCHANDISE revenues increased in 2021 but decreased in 2020 compared with the prior years. In 2021, revenues rose due to increased volume and higher average revenue per unit driven by increased fuel surcharge revenue and pricing. Volumes increased in all merchandise commodity groups, reflecting continued economic recovery following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2020, revenues decreased due to volume declines in all commodity groups which were partially offset by higher average revenue per unit, driven by pricing gains. 

For 2022, merchandise revenues are expected to increase, the result of higher revenue per unit, driven by pricing gains and increased fuel surcharge revenue, and higher volumes.

Agriculture, forest and consumer products revenues increased in 2021 but decreased in 2020 compared with the prior years. In 2021, the rise was the result of higher volume across almost all markets as the economy has improved since the early months of the pandemic in 2020 and increased average revenue per unit, the result of pricing gains and higher fuel surcharge revenue. Gains in ethanol, pulpboard, beverages, lumber and wood, and woodchips more than offset declines in soybeans and pulp. In 2020, the decline was the result of reduced volume partially offset by higher average revenue per unit, driven by pricing gains partially offset by lower fuel surcharge revenue. Volume declined due to the impact of COVID-19 on the demand for ethanol, corn, food service products, and building, industrial and commercial products. 

In 2022, agriculture, forest and consumer products revenues are expected to rise, a result of increased volume and average revenue per unit increases resulting from pricing gains. We expect volumes to increase in most markets led by corn, soybeans, pulpboard, and feed.

Chemicals revenues rose in 2021 and fell in 2020 compared with the prior years. In 2021, the increase was the result of volume growth partially offset by lower average revenue per unit, driven by mix of traffic. The increase in volume was due to economic and production recovery since the beginning of the pandemic, despite ongoing challenges in the energy markets. The markets with the largest gains were solid waste, industrial chemicals, sand, natural gas liquids, and plastics. In 2020, the decrease was the result of volume declines partially offset by higher average revenue per unit, due to pricing gains. Volume declined due to the impact from COVID-19 and ongoing disruptions in the energy markets. The onset of the pandemic created an overabundance of products in the market 

K21

as companies reduced stockpiles before requiring more products. Oil and petroleum shipments were negatively impacted due to reductions in gasoline/jet fuel demand and travel. 

For 2022, chemicals revenues are anticipated to increase, a result of higher average revenue per unit, driven by pricing gains, and increased volume. We expect carload increases in plastics, solid waste, and petroleum products to be partially offset by reduced volumes of inorganic chemicals.

Metals and construction revenues were higher in 2021 but declined in 2020 compared with the prior years. In 2021, revenue growth was driven by increased volumes and higher average revenue per unit, the result of pricing gains and higher fuel surcharge revenue. Volume increased across almost all markets due to economic improvement since the beginning of the pandemic. The markets serving the metal production industry, including coil steel, scrap metal, and iron and steel, experienced the largest gains. In 2020, volume declines were partially offset by higher average revenue per unit, the result of pricing gains. Volume declines were largely the result of weakened demand due to reductions in metal and domestic vehicle production. The onset of the pandemic caused industries to suspend production which heavily impacted customers’ needs for materials and shipping of finished and semi-finished goods. These declines were partially offset by increased demand for cement. 

For 2022, metals and construction revenues are expected to rise, a result of higher average revenue per unit, driven by pricing gains, and increased volume. As the economic recovery continues, volume growth is expected in almost all markets led by aggregates, coil steel, scrap metal, and construction.

Automotive revenues rose in 2021 but were lower in 2020 compared with the prior years. The increase in revenues in 2021 were driven by volume growth and higher average revenue per unit, driven by an increase in fuel surcharge revenue and pricing gains. Automotive volumes were higher due primarily to increased retail demand and the impact of prior-year pandemic-induced production shutdowns. This was partially offset by the impact of the microchip shortage on production. In 2020, revenue declines were driven by lower volume and fuel surcharge revenue, partially offset by pricing gains. The volume decline was mostly the result of unplanned automotive plant shutdowns in the first half of the year, primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which was partially offset by increased demand in the second half of the year. 

In 2022, automotive revenues are expected to increase as a result of higher volume, as inventories replenish, and increased average revenue per unit driven by pricing gains. 

INTERMODAL revenues increased in 2021 but decreased in 2020 compared with the prior years. The rise in 2021 was primarily the result of higher average revenue per unit driven by increased storage service charges, higher fuel surcharge revenue and pricing gains. The decline in 2020 was driven by lower volume and fuel surcharge revenue, which were partially offset by pricing gains and favorable mix. 

For 2022, we expect intermodal revenues to rise, the result of increased volume, higher fuel surcharge revenue and pricing gains, partially offset by lower storage service charges.

Intermodal units by market were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

K22

Domestic volume increased in 2021 but decreased in 2020 compared with the prior years. Volume rose due to strong consumer demand which was partially offset by overall supply chain congestion, including chassis availability issues. In 2020, volume declined due to supply chain disruptions related to the onset of the pandemic and strong over-the-road competition in the first half of the year. Inventory replenishment and a strong peak season in the second half of the year assisted in dampening the overall volume decline. 

For 2022, we expect higher domestic volume driven by new business and growth from existing customers.

International volume rose in 2021 but fell in 2020. The increase in 2021 was the result of continued strong import demand despite being limited by various supply chain constraints, including chassis availability issues. The decline in 2020 resulted from supply chain disruptions due to the onset of the pandemic. 

For 2022, we expect international volume growth due to increased demand and supply chain recovery.

COAL revenues increased in 2021 but decreased in 2020 compared with the prior years. The increase in 2021 was due to increased volumes and higher average revenue per unit driven by pricing gains and positive mix. The decrease in 2020 was a result of significant volume declines.

For 2022, we expect coal revenues to decline due to lower average revenue per unit and decreased volume driven by coal supply challenges. 

As shown in the following table, total tonnage increased in 2021 but decreased in 2020.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Utility coal tonnage increased in 2021 but decreased in 2020 compared with the prior years. The increase in 2021 was due to higher natural gas prices and increased demand from coal-sourced electrical generation. The decline in 2020 was due to low natural gas prices, diminished industrial and commercial electricity demand, and high stockpiles. 

For 2022, utility coal tonnage is expected to decline due to higher coal prices, lower natural gas prices, uncertainty regarding coal production and impacts of weather on demand.

Export coal tonnage increased in 2021 but decreased in 2020 compared with the prior years. The increase in 2021 was a result of strong seaborne pricing, improved global economic conditions, and greater global demand. The decline in 2020 was a result of weak seaborne pricing, COVID-19-related global disruptions, and import restrictions. 

For 2022, export coal tonnage is expected to decrease due to uncertainty regarding the global coal market and tight coal supply availability.

Domestic metallurgical coal tonnage increased in 2021 but decreased in 2020 compared with the prior years. The increase in 2021 was the result of strong recovery in the steel market. The decrease in 2020 was a reflection of reduced domestic steel demand which led to idled customer facilities and lower production. 

K23

For 2022, domestic metallurgical coal tonnage is expected to decrease due to customer sourcing challenges and tight coal supply availability.

Industrial coal tonnage increased in 2021 but decreased in 2020 compared with the prior years. The increase in 2021 was a result of improved demand. The decrease in 2020 was driven by pressure from natural gas conversions and customer sourcing changes.

For 2022, industrial coal tonnage is expected to decrease due to continued natural gas conversions and coal supply sourcing challenges.

Railway Operating Expenses

Railway operating expenses summarized by major classifications were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2021, expenses declined primarily as a result of the absence of the 2020 loss on asset disposal and the equity method investment impairment charge, which is included in purchased services and rents. This was partially offset by higher fuel costs, increased other purchased services, and higher compensation and benefits expense. In 2020, expenses fell as our strategic initiatives to improve productivity and asset utilization resulted in lower compensation and benefits expense, declines in fuel consumption, reduced purchased services, and lower materials expense. Fuel expense also declined due to lower prices. These expense reductions were partially offset by the loss on asset disposal and impairment charge previously discussed.

Compensation and benefits increased in 2021, reflecting changes in:

•incentive and stock-based compensation (up $128 million),

•overtime and recrews (up $47 million),

•increased pay rates (up $41 million),

•health and welfare benefits for craft employees (down $19 million),

•employment levels (down $154 million), and

•other (up $26 million).

K24

In 2020, compensation and benefits decreased, a result of changes in:

•employment levels (down $309 million),

•health and welfare benefits for craft employees (down $77 million),

•overtime and recrews (down $54 million),

•incentive and stock-based compensation (down $38 million),

•increased pay rates (up $50 million),

•lower capitalized labor (additional expense of $51 million), and

•other (down $1 million).

Our employment averaged 18,500 in 2021, compared with 20,200 in 2020, and 24,600 in 2019. 

Purchased services and rents includes the costs of services purchased from external vendors and contractors, including the net costs of operating joint (or leased) facilities with other railroads and the net cost of equipment rentals. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in purchased services in 2021 was due to increased technology costs, higher intermodal-related expenses, and increased Conrail costs. This was partially offset by the absence of a prior year $99 million impairment related to an equity method investment. The decrease in purchased services in 2020 resulted from volume-related declines and strategic initiatives to improve productivity and asset utilization, partially offset by the impairment of an equity method investment. 

Equipment rents, which includes our cost of using equipment (mostly freight cars) owned by other railroads or private owners less the rent paid to us for the use of our equipment, increased in both periods. In 2021, equipment rents were higher for general-use equipment due to decreased network velocity and increased volume. These increases were partially offset by lower intermodal costs and higher equity in TTX earnings. In 2020, the increase was primarily the result of lower equity in TTX earnings and increased automotive equipment expenses partially offset by decreased intermodal equipment expenses. 

Fuel expense, which includes the cost of locomotive fuel as well as other fuel used in railway operations, increased in 2021 but decreased in 2020 compared with the prior years. The increase in 2021 was primarily due to locomotive fuel prices (up 43%), which increased expenses $224 million. Additionally, locomotive fuel consumption increased 4%. The decline in 2020 was primarily due to locomotive fuel prices (down 32%), which decreased expenses $235 million. We consumed 384 million gallons of diesel fuel in 2021, compared with 368 million gallons in 2020 and 451 million gallons in 2019. 

Depreciation expense increased in both periods, a reflection of reinvestment in our infrastructure, rolling stock, and technology.

K25

Materials and other expenses decreased in both periods as shown in the following table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Materials expense decreased in both periods due primarily to lower maintenance requirements as a result of fewer locomotives and freight cars in service.

Claims expense includes costs related to personal injury, property damage, and environmental matters. The decrease in 2021 was primarily the result of lower costs associated with derailments and personal injuries. In 2020, claims expense declined, the result of lower costs related to environmental remediation matters that were partially offset by increased derailment costs. 

Other expense decreased in 2021, primarily due to higher gains from sales of operating property. Gains from operating property sales amounted to $82 million, $26 million, and $64 million in 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. In 2020, other expense decreased largely due to the absence of the 2019 write-off of a $32 million receivable as a result of a legal dispute. Additionally, 2020 benefited from reduced travel expenses resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. These reductions were partially offset by lower gains from sales of operating property. 

Loss on asset disposal

During 2020, we recorded a $385 million charge related to the disposal of 703 locomotives. For more information on the impact of the charge, see Note 7. 

Other income – net

Other income – net decreased in 2021 but increased in 2020. Other income fell in 2021 due to lower net returns on corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) and lower gains on sales of non-operating property. The increase in 2020 was driven by the absence of a prior year $49 million impairment loss related to natural resource assets, lower pension and postretirement benefit expenses, and higher returns on COLI investments, which more than offset the absence of coal royalties and lower gains on sales of non-operating property. 

Income taxes

The effective income tax rate was 22.5% in 2021, compared with 20.4% in 2020 and 22.0% in 2019. All three years benefited from favorable tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation and COLI returns. The current year benefited from a reduction in deferred taxes associated with state tax law changes, while 2020 benefited from a reduction of taxes upon the resolution of our 2012 amended return (see Note 4). 

For 2022, we expect an effective income tax rate between 23% and 24%. 

K26

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash provided by operating activities, our principal source of liquidity, was $4.3 billion in 2021, $3.6 billion in 2020, and $3.9 billion in 2019. The increase in 2021 was primarily the result of improved operating results. The decline in 2020 reflected a decrease in income from railway operations offset in part by lower income tax payments. We had negative working capital of $354 million at December 31, 2021 and working capital of $158 million at December 31, 2020. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $839 million and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2021, and 2020, respectively. We expect cash on hand combined with cash provided by operating activities will be sufficient to meet our ongoing obligations. In addition, we believe our currently-available borrowing capacity, access to additional financing, and ability to reduce property additions and shareholder distributions, including share repurchases, provide additional flexibility to meet our ongoing obligations. Nonetheless, we continue to monitor the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which could lead to a reduction in cash flows from operations.

Contractual obligations at December 31, 2021, including those that may have material cash requirements, include interest on fixed-rate long-term debt, long-term debt (Note 9), unconditional purchase obligations (Note 17), long-term advances from Conrail Inc. (Conrail) (Note 6), operating leases (Note 10), agreements with Consolidated Rail Corporation (CRC) (Note 6), and unrecognized tax benefits (Note 4).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* This amount is shown in the Other column because the year of settlement cannot be reasonably estimated.

Off balance sheet arrangements consist primarily of unrecognized obligations, including unconditional purchase obligations and future interest payments on fixed-rate long-term debt, which are included in the table above. 

Cash used in investing activities was $1.2 billion in both 2021 and 2020, and $1.8 billion in 2019. In 2021, lower proceeds from property sales were mostly offset by reduced COLI policy loan repayments and lower property additions. In 2020, the decrease was primarily driven by lower property additions.

Capital spending and track and equipment statistics can be found within the “Railway Property” section of Part I of this report on Form 10-K. For 2022, we expect property additions will be between $1.8 billion and $1.9 billion.

Cash used in financing activities was $3.3 billion in 2021, compared with $1.9 billion in 2020, and $2.0 billion in 2019. The increase in 2021 reflects higher repurchases of Common Stock and debt repayments, partially offset by increased proceeds from borrowings. In 2020, the change reflects lower repurchases of Common Stock and debt repayments, partially offset by reduced proceeds from borrowings.

Share repurchases of $3.4 billion in 2021, $1.4 billion in 2020, and $2.1 billion in 2019 resulted in the retirement of 12.7 million, 7.4 million, and 11.3 million shares, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, 8.0 million shares remain authorized by our Board of Directors for repurchase. The timing and volume of future share repurchases 

K27

will be guided by our assessment of market conditions and other pertinent factors. Repurchases may be executed in the open market, through derivatives, accelerated repurchase and other negotiated transactions and through plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1(c) under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Any near-term purchases under the program are expected to be made with internally generated cash, cash on hand, or proceeds from borrowings.

In August 2021, we issued $600 million of 2.90% senior notes due 2051.

In May 2021, we issued $500 million of 2.30% senior notes due 2031 and $600 million of 4.10% senior notes due 2121. The net proceeds of the 2.30% senior notes due 2031 will be used to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, new or existing eligible projects with environmental benefits, as outlined in our Green Financing Framework. 

In May 2021, we renewed, amended and restated our accounts receivable securitization program with a maximum borrowing capacity of $400 million. The term expires in May 2022. We had no amounts outstanding under this program and our available borrowing capacity was $400 million at both December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020.

We also have in place and available an $800 million credit agreement expiring in March 2025, which provides for borrowings at prevailing rates and includes covenants. We had no amounts outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2021 or December 31, 2020. In addition, we have investments in general purpose COLI policies and had the ability to borrow against these policies up to $715 million and $750 million at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively.

We discuss our credit agreement and our accounts receivable securitization program in Note 9, and we have authority from our Board of Directors to issue an additional $3.0 billion of debt or equity securities through public or private sale, all of which provide for access to additional liquidity should the need arise. Our debt-to-total capitalization ratio was 50.4% at December 31, 2021, compared with 46.2% at December 31, 2020.

Upcoming annual debt maturities are disclosed in Note 9. Overall, our goal is to maintain a capital structure with appropriate leverage to support our business strategy and provide flexibility through business cycles.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. These estimates and assumptions may require judgment about matters that are inherently uncertain, and future events are likely to occur that may require us to make changes to these estimates and assumptions. Accordingly, we regularly review these estimates and assumptions based on historical experience, changes in the business environment, and other factors we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The following critical accounting estimates are a subset of our significant accounting policies described in Note 1.

Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits

Accounting for pensions and other postretirement benefit plans requires us to make several estimates and assumptions (Note 12). These include the expected rate of return from investment of the plans’ assets and the expected retirement age of employees as well as their projected earnings and mortality. In addition, the amounts recorded are affected by changes in the interest rate environment because the associated liabilities are discounted to their present value. We make these estimates based on our historical experience and other information we deem pertinent under the circumstances (for example, expectations of future stock market performance). We utilize an independent actuarial consulting firm’s studies to assist us in selecting appropriate actuarial assumptions and valuing related liabilities.

K28

For 2021, we assumed a long-term investment rate of return of 8.0%, which was supported by our long-term total rate of return on pension plan assets since inception, as well as our expectation of future returns. A one-percentage point change to this rate of return assumption would result in a $27 million change in annual pension expense. We review assumptions related to our defined benefit plans annually, and while changes are likely to occur in assumptions concerning retirement age, projected earnings, and mortality, they are not expected to have a material effect on our net pension expense or net pension liability in the future. The net pension liability is recorded at net present value using discount rates that are based on the current interest rate environment in light of the timing of expected benefit payments. We utilize analyses in which the projected annual cash flows from the pension and postretirement benefit plans are matched with yield curves based on an appropriate universe of high-quality corporate bonds. We use the results of the yield curve analyses to select the discount rates that match the payment streams of the benefits in these plans. A one-percentage point change to this discount rate assumption would result in a $20 million change in annual pension expense. 

Properties and Depreciation

Most of our assets are long-lived railway properties (Note 7). “Properties” are stated principally at cost and are depreciated using the group method whereby assets with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes and depreciated using a composite depreciation rate. See Note 1 for a more detailed discussion of assumptions and estimates.

Expenditures, including those on leased assets, that extend an asset’s useful life or increase its utility are capitalized. Expenditures capitalized include those that are directly related to a capital project and may include materials, labor, and other direct costs, in addition to an allocable portion of indirect costs that relate to a capital project. A significant portion of our annual capital spending relates to self-constructed assets. Costs related to repairs and maintenance activities that, in our judgment, do not extend an asset’s useful life or increase its utility are expensed when such repairs are performed.

Depreciation expense for 2021 totaled $1.2 billion. Our composite depreciation rates for 2021 are disclosed in Note 7; a one-year increase (or decrease) in the estimated average useful lives of depreciable assets would have resulted in an approximate $45 million decrease (or increase) to annual depreciation expense.

Personal Injury

Claims expense, included in “Materials and other” in the Consolidated Statements of Income, includes our estimate of costs for personal injuries. 

To aid in valuing our personal injury liability and determining the amount to accrue with respect to such claims during the year, we utilize studies prepared by an independent actuarial consulting firm. The actuarial firm studies our historical patterns of reserving for claims and subsequent settlements, taking into account relevant outside influences. We adjust the liability quarterly based upon our assessment and the results of the study. The accuracy of our estimate of the liability is subject to inherent limitation given the difficulty of predicting future events and, as such, the ultimate loss sustained may vary from the estimated liability recorded. 

See Note 17 for a more detailed discussion of the assumptions and estimates we use for personal injury.

Income Taxes

Our net deferred tax liability totaled $7.2 billion at December 31, 2021 (Note 4). This liability is estimated based on the expected future tax consequences of items recognized in the financial statements. After application of the federal statutory tax rate to book income, judgment is required with respect to the timing and deductibility of expenses in our income tax returns. For state income and other taxes, judgment is also required with respect to the apportionment among the various jurisdictions. A valuation allowance is recorded if we expect that it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized. We have a $60 million valuation allowance on $461 million of 

K29

deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2021, reflecting the expectation that substantially all of these assets will be realized.

OTHER MATTERS

Labor Agreements

Approximately 80% of our railroad employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. Pursuant to the Railway Labor Act, these agreements remain in effect until new agreements are reached, or until the bargaining procedures mandated by the Railway Labor Act are completed. We largely bargain nationally in concert with other major railroads, represented by the National Carriers Conference Committee. Moratorium provisions in the labor agreements govern when the railroads and unions may propose changes to the agreements. The current round of bargaining commenced on November 1, 2019 with both management and the unions serving their formal proposals for changes to the collective bargaining agreements and negotiations are ongoing.

Market Risks

At December 31, 2021, we had no outstanding debt subject to interest rate fluctuations. Market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a one-percentage point decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2021 and amounts to an increase of approximately $1.9 billion to the fair value of our debt at December 31, 2021. We consider it unlikely that interest rate fluctuations applicable to these instruments will result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. 

New Accounting Pronouncements

For a detailed discussion of new accounting pronouncements, see Note 1.

Inflation

In preparing financial statements, GAAP requires the use of historical cost that disregards the effects of inflation on the replacement cost of property. As a capital-intensive company, we have most of our capital invested in long-lived assets. The replacement cost of these assets, as well as the related depreciation expense, would be substantially greater than the amounts reported on the basis of historical cost.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or our achievements or those of our industry to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “would,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “consider,” “predict,” “potential,” “feel,” or other comparable terminology. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates, beliefs, and projections. While we believe these expectations, assumptions, estimates, beliefs, and projections are reasonable, such forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which involve factors or circumstances that are beyond our control. These and other important factors, including those discussed in Item 1A “Risk Factors,” may cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements herein are made only as of the date they were first issued, and unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, we disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 

K30

Additional Information

Investors and others should note that we routinely use the Investor Relations, Performance Metrics and Sustainability sections of our website (www.norfolksouthern.com/content/nscorp/en/investor-relations.html, http://www.nscorp.com/content/nscorp/en/investor-relations/performance-metrics.html, & www.nscorp.com/content/nscorp/en/about-ns/sustainability.html) to post presentations to investors and other important information, including information that may be deemed material to investors. Information about us, including information that may be deemed material, may also be announced by posts on our social media channels, including Twitter (www.twitter.com/nscorp) and LinkedIn (www.linkedin.com/company/norfolk-southern). We may also use our website and social media channels for the purpose of complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. As a result, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in Norfolk Southern to review the information posted on our website and social media channels. The information posted on our website and social media channels is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk