Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

We are exposed to economic risks from interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. A portion of these risks is hedged, but the risks may affect our financial statements. 

Interest Rates 

We are exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result of our credit facility and commercial paper program, term loan, mortgages payable, and long-term notes and bonds used to maintain liquidity and expand our real estate investment portfolio and operations. Our interest rate risk management objective is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flow and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we issue long-term notes and bonds, primarily at fixed rates.

In order to mitigate and manage the effects of interest rate risks on our operations, we may utilize a variety of financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, interest rate locks and caps. The use of these types of instruments to hedge our exposure to changes in interest rates carries additional risks, including counterparty credit risk, the enforceability of hedging contracts and the risk that unanticipated and significant changes in interest rates will cause a significant loss of basis in the contract. To limit counterparty credit risk we will seek to enter into such agreements with major financial institutions with favorable credit ratings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to adequately protect against the foregoing risks or realize an economic benefit that exceeds the related amounts incurred in connection with engaging in such hedging activities. We do not enter into any derivative transactions for speculative or trading purposes.

-65-
The following table presents, by year of expected maturity, the principal amounts, average interest rates and estimated fair values of our fixed and variable rate debt as of December 31, 2021. This information is presented to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes (dollars in millions):

 Expected Maturity Data

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  Excludes net premiums recorded on mortgages payable, net premiums recorded on notes payable and deferred financing costs on mortgages payable, notes payable, and our term loan. At December 31, 2021, the unamortized balance of net premiums on mortgages payable is $28.7 million, the unamortized balance of net premiums on notes payable is $295.5 million, and the balance of deferred financing costs on mortgages payable is $790,000, on notes payable is $53.1 million, and on our term loan is $443,000.

(2) We base the estimated fair value of the publicly-traded fixed rate senior notes and bonds at December 31, 2021 on the indicative market prices and recent trading activity of our senior notes and bonds payable. We base the estimated fair value of our fixed rate mortgages and private senior notes payable at December 31, 2021 on the relevant forward interest rate curve, plus an applicable credit-adjusted spread. We believe that the carrying values of the line of credit borrowings, commercial paper borrowings and term loan balance reasonably approximate their estimated fair values at December 31, 2021.

The table above incorporates only those exposures that exist as of December 31, 2021. It does not consider those exposures or positions that could arise after that date. As a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss, with respect to interest rate fluctuations, would depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at the time, and interest rates.

At December 31, 2021, our outstanding notes, bonds and mortgages payable had fixed interest rates. Interest on our revolving credit facility, commercial paper borrowings and term loan balance is variable. However, the variable interest rate feature on our term loan has been mitigated by an interest rate swap agreement. Based on our revolving credit facility balance of $650.0 million at December 31, 2021, a 1% change in interest rates would change our interest rate costs by $6.5 million per year.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

We are exposed to foreign currency exchange variability related to investments in and earnings from our foreign investments. Foreign currency market risk is the possibility that our results of operations or financial position could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We primarily hedge our foreign currency risk by borrowing in the currencies in which we invest thereby providing a natural hedge. We continuously evaluate and manage our foreign currency risk through the use of derivative financial instruments, including cross-currency swaps, currency exchange swaps, foreign currency collars, and foreign currency forward contracts with financial counterparties where practicable. Such derivative instruments are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes.

-66-
Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data