Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Financial Instruments and Other

General

We are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. We try to mitigate these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. The financial impact of these hedging instruments is primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. We achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. Although certain of our derivative financial instruments do not qualify or are not accounted for under hedge accounting, our objective is not to hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. Refer to Note 16. Fair Value Measurements and Derivative Instruments to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Interest Rate Risk 

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates to our long-term debt obligations including future interest payments. At December 31, 2021, approximately 65.7% of our long-term debt was effectively fixed as compared to 64.5% as of December 31, 2020. We use interest rate swap agreements to modify our exposure to interest rate movements and to manage our interest expense.

Market risk associated with our long-term fixed rate debt is the potential increase in fair value resulting from a decrease in interest rates. We use interest rate swap agreements that effectively convert a portion of our fixed-rate debt to a floating-rate basis to manage this risk. At December 31, 2021, we maintained interest rate swap agreements on the following fixed-rate debt instruments:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

These interest rate swap agreements are accounted for as fair value hedges.

The estimated fair value of our long-term fixed-rate debt at December 31, 2021 was $13.7 billion, using quoted market prices, where available, or using the present value of expected future cash flows which incorporates risk profile. The fair value of our fixed to floating interest rate swap agreements was estimated to be an asset of $7.7 million as of December 31, 2021, based on the present value of expected future cash flows. A hypothetical one percentage point decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2021 would increase the fair value of our hedged and unhedged long-term fixed-rate debt by approximately $105.3 million and would increase the fair value of our fixed to floating interest rate swap agreements by approximately $5.0 million.

Market risk associated with our long-term floating-rate debt is the potential increase in interest expense from an increase in interest rates. We use interest rate swap agreements that effectively convert a portion of our floating-rate debt to a fixed-rate basis to manage this risk. A hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase our forecasted 2022 interest expense by approximately $48.7 million, assuming no change in foreign currency exchange rates. 

51
At December 31, 2021, we maintained interest rate swap agreements on the following floating-rate debt instruments:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________________________________________________________

(1) Interest rate swap agreements hedging the Euro-denominated term loan for Harmony of the Seas include EURIBOR zero-floors matching the hedged debt EURIBOR zero-floor. Amount presented is based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2021.

(2) Interest rate swap agreements hedging the term loan of Odyssey of the Seas include LIBOR zero-floors matching the debt LIBOR zero-floor. The effective dates of the $421.7 million and $191.7 million interest rate swap agreements are October 2020 and October 2022, respectively. The unsecured term loan for the financing of Odyssey of the Seas was drawn on March 2021.

These interest rate swap agreements are accounted for as cash flow hedges.

The fair value of our floating to fixed interest rate swap agreements was estimated to be a liability of $70.7 million as of December 31, 2021 based on the present value of expected future cash flows. These interest rate swap agreements are accounted for as cash flow hedges.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

Our primary exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk relates to our ship construction contracts denominated in Euros, our foreign currency denominated debt and our international business operations. On a regular basis, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts and, from time to time, we utilize cross-currency swap agreements and collar options to manage portions of the exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. 

The estimated fair value, as of December 31, 2021, of our Euro-denominated forward contracts associated with our ship construction contracts was a liability of $122.5 million, based on the present value of expected future cash flows. As of December 31, 2021, the aggregate cost of our ships on order, not including ships on order by our Partner Brands, was approximately $12.4 billion, of which we had deposited $800.2 million as of such date. Approximately 59.0% of the aggregate cost of the ships under construction was exposed to fluctuations in the Euro exchange rate at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the Euro as of December 31, 2021, assuming no changes in comparative interest rates, would result in a $730.4 million increase in the United States dollar cost of the foreign currency denominated ship construction contracts exposed to fluctuations in the Euro exchange rate. Our foreign currency forward contract agreements are accounted for as cash flow or net investment hedges depending on the designation of the related hedge.

Our international business operations subject us to foreign currency exchange risk. We transact business in many different foreign currencies and maintain investments in foreign operations which may expose us to financial market risk resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Movements in foreign currency exchange rates may affect the value of our earnings in foreign currencies and cash flows. We manage most of this exposure on a consolidated basis, which allows us to take advantage of any natural offsets. Therefore, weakness in one particular currency might be offset by strengths in other currencies over time. The extent to which one currency is effective as a natural offset of another currency fluctuates over time. In addition, some foreign currency exposures have little to no mitigating natural offsets available. 

We consider our investments in our foreign operations to be denominated in relatively stable currencies and of a long-term nature. As of December 31, 2021, we maintained a foreign currency forward contract and designated it as a hedge of a portion of our net investment in TUI Cruises of €245.0 million, or approximately $278.6 million based on the exchange rate at December 31, 2021. This forward currency contract matures in April 2022.

52
We also address the exposure of our investments in foreign operations by denominating a portion of our debt in our subsidiaries' and investments' functional currencies and designating it as a hedge of these subsidiaries and investments. We had designated debt as a hedge of our net investments primarily in TUI Cruises of approximately €97.0 million, or approximately $110.3 million, through December 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2020, we had designated debt as a hedge of our net investments primarily in TUI Cruises of approximately €215.0 million, or approximately $263.0 million.

We have included net gains of approximately $47.7 million and $22.1 million of foreign-currency transaction remeasurement and changes in the fair value of derivatives in the foreign currency translation adjustment component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

On a regular basis, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts and, from time to time, we utilize cross-currency swap agreements and collar options to minimize the volatility resulting from the remeasurement of net monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than our functional currency or the functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries. During 2021, we maintained an average of approximately $483.2 million of these foreign currency forward contracts. These instruments are not designated as hedging instruments. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 changes in the fair value of the foreign currency forward contracts resulted in gains (losses) of approximately $(30.9) million, $(19.0) million and $1.4 million, respectively, which offset gains (losses) arising from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies in those same years of $24.3 million, $(1.5) million and $0.4 million, respectively. These changes were recognized in earnings within Other income (expense) in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss).

Fuel Price Risk 

Our exposure to market risk for changes in fuel prices relates primarily to the consumption of fuel on our ships. Fuel cost, net of the financial impact of fuel swap agreements, as a percentage of our total revenues, was approximately 25.1% in 2021, 16.8% in 2020 and 6.4% in 2019. We use fuel swap agreements to mitigate the financial impact of fluctuations in fuel prices. 

As of December 31, 2021, we had fuel swap agreements to pay fixed prices for fuel with an aggregate notional amount of approximately $527.3 million, maturing through 2023. These fuel swap agreements are generally accounted for as cash flow hedges. The fuel swap agreements designated as hedges of projected fuel purchases represented 54% of our projected 2022 fuel requirements and 15% of our projected 2023 fuel requirements. The prior suspension of our cruise operations due to the COVID-19 pandemic and our gradual resumption of cruise operations has resulted in reductions to our forecasted fuel purchases. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had outstanding fuel swaps of 231,900 metric tons, maturing in 2022, that do not hedge forecasted fuel consumption. Of these swaps, 115,950 metric tons relate to fuel swap agreements with discontinued hedge accounting, in which we effectively pay fixed prices for our fuel purchases and receive floating prices from the counterparty. The remaining 115,950 tons relate to fuel swap agreements that were not designated as hedges since inception, in which we effectively pay floating prices for our fuel purchases and receive fixed prices from the counterparty. The estimated fair value of our fuel swap agreements at December 31, 2021 was estimated to be an asset of $40.3 million. We estimate that a hypothetical 10% increase in our weighted-average fuel price from that experienced during the year ended December 31, 2021 would increase our forecasted 2022 fuel cost by approximately $50.0 million, net of the impact of fuel swap agreements.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data