Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Certain information contained in Management’s Discussion and Analysis and in other parts of this report may be deemed forward-looking statements regarding events and financial trends that may affect the future operating results or financial positions of Robert Half International Inc. (the "Company"). These statements may be identified by words such as “estimate,” “forecast,” “project,” “plan,” “intend,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” or variations or negatives thereof or by similar or comparable words or phrases. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: changes to or new interpretations of U.S. or international tax regulations, the global financial and economic situation; the duration and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to mitigate its spread; changes in levels of unemployment and other economic conditions in the United States or foreign countries where the Company does business, or in particular regions or industries; reduction in the supply of candidates for contract employment or the Company’s ability to attract candidates; the entry of new competitors into the marketplace or expansion by existing competitors; the ability of the Company to maintain existing client relationships and attract new clients in the context of changing economic or competitive conditions; the impact of competitive pressures, including any change in the demand for the Company’s services, on the Company’s ability to maintain its margins; the possibility of the Company incurring liability for its activities, including the activities of its engagement professionals, or for events impacting its engagement professionals on clients’ premises; the possibility that adverse publicity could impact the Company’s ability to attract and retain clients and candidates; the success of the Company in attracting, training, and retaining qualified management personnel and other staff employees; the Company’s ability to comply with governmental regulations affecting personnel services businesses in particular or employer/employee relationships in general; whether there will be ongoing demand for Sarbanes-Oxley or other regulatory compliance services; the Company’s reliance on short-term contracts for a significant percentage of its business; litigation relating to prior or current transactions or activities, including litigation that may be disclosed from time to time in the Company’s Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings; the ability of the Company to manage its international operations and comply with foreign laws and regulations; the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the possibility that the additional costs the Company will incur as a result of health care or other reform legislation may adversely affect the Company’s profit margins or the demand for the Company’s services; the possibility that the Company’s computer and communications hardware and software systems could be damaged or their service interrupted or the Company could experience a cybersecurity breach; and the possibility that the Company may fail to maintain adequate financial and management controls and as a result suffer errors in its financial reporting. Additionally, with respect to Protiviti, other risks and uncertainties include the fact that future success will depend on its ability to retain employees and attract clients; there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for broad based consulting, regulatory compliance, technology services, public sector or other high demand advisory services; failure to produce projected revenues could adversely affect financial results; and there is the possibility of involvement in litigation relating to prior or current transactions or activities. Because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the Company’s business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. 

Executive Overview

The Company achieved record levels of service revenues and net income during 2021 due to a broad-based, global acceleration in demand for its staffing and business consulting services. Annual service revenues reached $6.46 billion in 2021, increasing 26.5% from the prior year. Full-year 2021 net income increased 95.5% to $599 million and diluted net income per share increased 98.5% to $5.36. 

The future of work increasingly includes flexible, hybrid and fully remote models and the Company can deliver deeper skills and more price-point choices to its clients by expanding candidate searches beyond local markets while leveraging its global office network and advanced AI-driven technologies. The expanded acceptance of remote work creates significant opportunity for the Company. It brings together the Company's numerous strengths, including its global brand, global office network, global candidate database, and advanced AI-driven technologies and data analytics at the scale needed to excel at out-of-market recruitment and placements. This strengthens the Company's competitive position significantly since its traditionally toughest competitors, local and regional staffing firms, generally do not have these capabilities.

Protiviti continues to be a strong differentiator for the Company, with multiple years of consecutive growth and a highly diversified client base and suite of solution offerings. Growth remains strong across internal audit, technology consulting, risk and compliance consulting, and business performance improvement. Technology consulting is the largest solution group with particular strength in cybersecurity and privacy solutions as well as enterprise applications and data analytics. The Company continues to see positive results in the collaboration between Protiviti and staffing, which pairs Protiviti's world-class consulting talent with staffing's deep operational resources to provide a cost-effective solution to clients' skills and scalability needs. Protiviti has also benefited from project work in the public sector resulting from various governmental stimulus programs.

16

Demand for the Company’s temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing, and risk consulting and internal audit services is largely dependent upon general economic and labor trends both domestically and abroad. The United States economic backdrop during 2021 was conducive to growth for the Company as real gross domestic product (“GDP”) increased 5.7% in 2021, compared to a decrease of 3.5% in 2020, while the unemployment rate declined from 6.7% in December 2020 to 3.9% in December 2021. In the United States, the number of job openings exceeded the number of hires at the end of December 2021, creating competition for skilled talent that increases the Company's value to clients. The U.S. labor market remains robust, with significant demand due to talent shortages across professional disciplines. 

We monitor various economic indicators and business trends in all of the countries in which we operate to anticipate demand for the Company’s services. We evaluate these trends to determine the appropriate level of investment, including personnel, which will best position the Company for success in the current and future global macroeconomic environment. The Company’s investments in headcount are typically structured to proactively support and align with expected revenue growth trends and productivity metrics. We have limited visibility into future revenues not only due to the dependence on macroeconomic conditions noted above, but also because of the relatively short duration of the Company’s client engagements. Accordingly, we typically assess headcount and other investments on at least a quarterly basis. During 2021, the Company increased headcount across all segments, when compared to prior year-end levels.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

As described below, the Company’s most critical accounting policies and estimates are those that involve subjective decisions or assessments.

Service Revenues. The Company derives its revenues from three segments: temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing, and risk consulting and internal audit services. Revenues are recognized when promised goods or services are delivered to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. See Note C—"Revenue Recognition" to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part II—Item 8 of this report.

Income Taxes. The Company’s operations are subject to U.S. federal, state and local, and foreign income taxes. In establishing its deferred income tax assets and liabilities and its provision for income taxes, the Company makes judgments and interpretations based on the enacted tax laws that are applicable to its operations in various jurisdictions. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured and recorded using current enacted tax rates, which the Company expects will apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are recovered or settled. The likelihood of a material change in the Company’s expected realization of its deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income and the effectiveness of its tax planning in the various relevant jurisdictions.

The Company also evaluates the need for valuation allowances to reduce the deferred tax assets to realizable amounts. Management evaluates all positive and negative evidence and uses judgment regarding past and future events, including operating results, to help determine when it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets may not be realized. When appropriate, a valuation allowance is recorded against deferred tax assets to offset future tax benefits that may not be realized. Valuation allowances of $24.2 million and $24.1 million were recorded as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The valuation allowances recorded relate primarily to net operating losses in certain foreign operations. If such losses are ultimately utilized to offset future operating income, the Company will recognize a tax benefit up to the full amount of the related valuation reserve. 

While management believes that its judgments and interpretations regarding income taxes are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience may materially affect the future financial results of the Company.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note B—"New Accounting Pronouncements" to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part II—Item 8 of this report.

17

Results of Operations

The Company analyzes its operating results for three reportable segments: temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services. The temporary and consultant staffing segment provides specialized staffing in the accounting and finance, administrative and office, information technology, legal, advertising, marketing, and web design fields. The permanent placement staffing segment provides full-time personnel in the accounting, finance, administrative and office, and information technology fields. The risk consulting and internal audit services segment provides internal audit, technology consulting, risk and compliance consulting, and business performance improvement services.

Demand for the Company’s temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services is largely dependent upon general economic and labor market conditions both domestically and abroad. Because of the inherent difficulty in predicting economic trends, future demand for the Company’s services cannot be forecast with certainty. Results for the full year 2021 show that the recovery from the recent economic downturn has surpassed pre-pandemic levels and continues with strong momentum and continued broad-based demand for the Company's staffing and business consulting services. The Company will continue to invest in its people, its technology, its brands and its business model to strengthen the ability to connect people to meaningful and exciting new work and provide clients with the talent and deep subject matter expertise they need to confidently compete and grow.

The Company’s temporary and permanent staffing business conducts placement activities through 321 offices in 42 states, the District of Columbia and 17 foreign countries, while Protiviti has 64 offices in 24 states and 12 foreign countries.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

The financial results of the Company are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) and the rules of the SEC. To help readers understand the Company’s financial performance, the Company supplements its GAAP financial results with the following non-GAAP measures: as adjusted revenue growth rates; adjusted gross margin; adjusted selling, general and administrative expense; segment income and combined segment income.

Variations in the Company’s financial results include the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and billing days. The Company provides “as adjusted” revenue growth calculations to remove the impact of these items. These calculations show the year-over-year revenue growth rates for the Company’s lines of business on both a reported basis and also on an as adjusted basis for global, U.S., and international operations. The Company has provided this data because it focuses on the Company’s revenue growth rates attributable to operating activities and aids in evaluating revenue trends over time. The Company expresses year-over-year revenue changes as calculated percentages using the same number of billing days and constant currency exchange rates.

In order to calculate constant currency revenue growth rates, as reported amounts are retranslated using foreign currency exchange rates from the prior year’s comparable period. Management then calculates a global, weighted-average number of billing days for each reporting period based upon input from all countries and all lines of business. In order to remove the fluctuations caused by comparable periods having different billing days, the Company calculates same billing day revenue growth rates by dividing each comparative period’s reported revenues by the calculated number of billing days for that period to arrive at a per billing day amount. Same billing day growth rates are then calculated based upon the per billing day amounts. The term “as adjusted” means that the impact of different billing days and currency fluctuations are removed from the revenue growth rate calculation.

The following measures: adjusted gross margin; adjusted selling, general and administrative expense; and segment income include gains and losses on investments held to fund the Company’s obligations under employee deferred compensation plans. The Company provides these measures because they are used by management to review its operational results.

 Combined segment income is income before income taxes adjusted for interest income, net and amortization of intangible assets. The Company provides combined segment income because it is how management evaluates segment performance.

 The non-GAAP financial measures provided herein may not provide information that is directly comparable to that provided by other companies in the Company’s industry, as other companies may calculate such financial results differently. The Company’s non-GAAP financial measures are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to amounts presented in accordance with GAAP. The Company does not consider these non-GAAP financial measures to be a substitute for, or superior to, the information provided by GAAP financial results. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is provided on the following pages.

Refer to Item 7a. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for further discussion of the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.

18

Years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 

Service Revenues. The Company’s revenues were $6.46 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021, increasing by 26.5%, compared to $5.11 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. Revenues from U.S. operations increased 25.6% to $5.01 billion (77.5% of total revenue) for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $3.98 billion (78.0% of total revenue) for the year ended December 31, 2020. Revenues from foreign operations increased 29.4% to $1.45 billion (22.5% of total revenue) for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $1.12 billion (22.0% of total revenue) for the year ended December 31, 2020. The economic recovery in the United States and abroad contributed to the increased broad-based demand for the Company’s staffing and business consulting services. Contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail.

Temporary and consultant staffing revenues were $4.04 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021, increasing by 16.1% compared to revenues of $3.48 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. Key drivers of temporary and consultant staffing revenues include average hourly bill rates and the number of hours worked by the Company’s engagement professionals on client engagements. On an as adjusted basis, temporary and consultant staffing revenues increased 15.5% for 2021 compared to 2020, due primarily to an increase in the number of hours worked by the Company's engagement professionals and a 5.3% increase in weighted average bill rates, adjusted for changes in the mix of revenues by line of business, currency and country. In the U.S., 2021 revenues increased 15.6% on an as reported basis, and increased 16.1% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2020. For the Company’s international operations, 2021 revenues increased 17.9% on an as reported basis, and increased 13.4% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2020.

Permanent placement staffing revenues were $570 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, increasing by 54.0% compared to revenues of $370 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Key drivers of permanent placement staffing revenues consist of the number of candidate placements and average fees earned per placement. On an as adjusted basis, permanent placement staffing revenues increased 52.6% for 2021 compared to 2020, driven by increases in the number of placements and average fees earned per placement. In the U.S., 2021 revenues increased 55.2% on an as reported basis, and increased 55.8% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2020. For the Company’s international operations, 2021 revenues increased 51.3% on an as reported basis, and increased 45.7% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2020. Historically, demand for permanent placement services is even more sensitive to economic and labor market conditions than demand for temporary and consultant staffing and this is expected to continue.

Risk consulting and internal audit services revenues were $1.85 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021, increasing by 46.9% compared to revenues of $1.26 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. Key drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services revenues are the billable hours worked by consultants on client engagements and average hourly bill rates. On an as adjusted basis, risk consulting and internal audit services revenues increased 46.2% for 2021 compared to 2020, driven primarily by an increase in billable hours. In the U.S., 2021 revenues increased 45.1% on an as reported basis, and increased 45.6% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2020. For the Company’s international operations, 2021 revenues increased 54.0% on an as reported basis, and increased 48.6% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2020.

19

A reconciliation of the non-GAAP year-over-year revenue growth rates to the as reported year-over-year revenue growth rates for the year ended December 31, 2021, is presented in the following table:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross Margin. The Company’s gross margin dollars were $2.70 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021, up 34.0% from $2.01 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. Contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail.

Gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing represent revenues less costs of services, which consist of payroll, payroll taxes and benefit costs for engagement professionals, and reimbursable expenses. The key drivers of gross margin are: i) pay-bill spreads, which represent the differential between wages paid to engagement professionals and amounts billed to clients; ii) fringe costs, which are primarily composed of payroll taxes and benefit costs; and iii) conversion revenues, which are earned when a temporary position converts to a permanent position with the Company’s client. Gross margin dollars for the Company’s temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.60 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021, up 21.8% from $1.31 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. As a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing were 39.6% in 2021, up from 37.8% in 2020. This year-over-year improvement in gross margin percentage was primarily attributable to higher pay-bill spreads and higher conversion revenues.

Gross margin dollars for permanent placement staffing represent revenues less reimbursable expenses. Gross margin dollars for the Company’s permanent placement staffing division were $569 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, up 54.0% from $369 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Because reimbursable expenses for permanent placement staffing services are de minimis, the increase in gross margin dollars is substantially explained by the increase in revenues previously discussed.

Gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services represent revenues less costs of services, which consist primarily of professional staff payroll, payroll taxes, benefit costs and reimbursable expenses. The primary drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services gross margin are: i) the relative composition of and number of professional staff and their respective pay and bill rates; and ii) staff utilization, which is the relationship of time spent on client engagements in proportion to the total time available for the Company’s risk consulting and internal audit services staff. Gross margin dollars for the Company’s risk consulting and internal audit division were $528 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, up 59.9% from $330 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. As a percentage of revenues, reported gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services were 28.5% in 2021, up from 26.2% in 2020. As a percentage of revenues, adjusted gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services were 29.0% in 2021, up from 27.1% in 2020. The year-over-year increase in gross margin percentage was due to higher staff utilization rates and the relative composition of and number of professional staff and their respective pay and bill rates.

20

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of staff compensation, advertising, variable overhead, depreciation, and occupancy costs. The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.95 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021, up 17.1% from $1.67 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. As a percentage of revenues, reported selling, general and administrative expenses were 30.2% in 2021, down from 32.6% in 2020. As a percentage of revenues, adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses were 29.4% in 2021, down from 31.4% in 2020. Contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the Company’s temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.25 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021, increasing by 10.5% from $1.13 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. As a percentage of revenues, reported selling, general and administrative expenses for temporary and consultant staffing were 31.0% in 2021, down from 32.6% in 2020. As a percentage of revenues, adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses for temporary and consultant staffing were 29.8% in 2021, down from 30.9% in 2020, due primarily to positive leverage from an increase in revenues. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the Company’s permanent placement staffing division were $468 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, increasing by 35.0% from $347 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. As a percentage of revenues, reported selling, general and administrative expenses for permanent placement staffing services were 82.1% in 2021, down from 93.7% in 2020. As a percentage of revenues, adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses for permanent placement staffing was 81.2% in 2021, down from 92.0% in 2020, due primarily to positive leverage from an increase in revenues. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the Company’s risk consulting and internal audit services division were $232 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, increasing by 24.3% from $186 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for risk consulting and internal audit services were 12.5% in 2021, down from 14.8% in 2020, due primarily to positive operating leverage resulting from increased revenue. 

21

A reconciliation of the non-GAAP adjusted summary of operations to the reported summary of operations, for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 is presented in the following table (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Changes in the Company’s deferred compensation obligations are included in selling, general and administrative expense or, in the case of Protiviti, costs of services, while the related investment income is presented separately. The non-GAAP financial measures shown in the table above are adjusted to reclassify investment income from investments held in employee deferred compensation trusts to the same line item, which includes the corresponding change in obligation. These adjustments have no impact to income before income taxes.

22

Income from Investments Held in Employee Deferred Compensation Trusts. Under the Company’s employee deferred compensation plans, employees direct the investment of their account balances, and the Company invests amounts held in the associated investment trusts consistent with these directions. As realized and unrealized investment gains and losses occur, the Company’s employee deferred compensation obligation to employees changes accordingly. Changes in the Company’s deferred compensation obligations noted above remain in selling, general and administrative, or in the case of the Company’s risk consulting and internal audit services division, costs of services. The value of the related investment trust assets also changes by the equal and offsetting amount, leaving no net costs to the Company. The Company’s income from investments held in employee deferred compensation trusts consists primarily of unrealized and realized gains and losses and dividend income from trust investments. The Company’s income from investments held in employee deferred compensation trusts was $61 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, down from $75 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The decrease in income from trust investments was due to lower market returns in 2021, when compared to 2020.

Income Before Income Taxes and Segment Income. The Company’s total income before income taxes was $804 million, or 12.4% of revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2021, up from $422 million or 8.3% of revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2020. Combined segment income was $806 million, or 12.5% of revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2021, up from $422 million, or 8.3% of revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2020. 

The following table provides a reconciliation of the non-GAAP combined segment income to reported income before income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 (in thousands):[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the Company’s temporary and consultant staffing division, segment income was $394 million, or 9.8% of applicable revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2021, up from $237 million, or 6.8% of applicable revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2020. For the Company’s permanent placement staffing division, segment income was $106 million, or 18.7% of applicable revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2021, up from segment income of $29 million, or 7.8% of applicable revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2020. For the Company’s risk consulting and internal audit services division, segment income was $305 million, or 16.5% of applicable revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to segment income of $156 million, or 12.3% of applicable revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2020.

Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes was 25.5% and 27.4% for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The lower tax rate for 2021 can be attributed to better coverage of non-deductible expenses due to higher income in 2021, as well as higher stock compensation deductions due to the rise in the Company's stock price.

Years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 

A discussion of changes regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, filed with the SEC on February 12, 2021, which is available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and at www.roberthalf.com/investor-center.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The change in the Company’s liquidity during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, is primarily the net effect of funds generated by operations and the funds used for capital expenditures, investment in employee deferred compensation trusts, net of redemptions from employee deferred compensation trusts, repurchases of common stock, and payment of dividends. 

Cash and cash equivalents were $619 million and $574 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Operating activities provided $603 million during the year ended December 31, 2021, offset by $88 million and $459 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. Operating and investing activities provided $597 million and $9 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2020, offset by $315 million of net cash used in financing activities.

23

Operating activities—Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $603 million. This was composed of net income of $599 million adjusted upward for non-cash items of $89 million, offset by net cash used in changes in working capital of $85 million. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $597 million. This was composed of net income of $306 million, adjusted upward for non-cash items of $59 million, and net cash provided by changes in working capital of $232 million.

Investing activities—Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021, was $88 million. This was composed of capital expenditures of $37 million and investments in employee deferred compensation trusts of $85 million, offset by proceeds from employee deferred compensation trust redemptions of $34 million. Cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $9 million. This was composed of proceeds from employee deferred compensation trust redemptions of $123 million, largely offset by capital expenditures of $33 million, investments in employee deferred compensation trusts of $65 million, and $16 million cash paid for an acquisition.

Capital expenditures, including $31 million related to cloud computing implementations, in 2021, totaled $68 million, approximately 84% of which represented investments in software initiatives and technology infrastructure, both of which are important to the Company’s sustainability and future growth opportunities. Capital expenditures for cloud computing arrangements are included in cash flows from operating activities on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Capital expenditures included amounts spent on tenant improvements and furniture and equipment in the Company’s leased offices. We currently expect that 2022 capitalized expenditures will range from $95 million to $105 million, of which $75 million to $80 million relates to software initiatives and technology infrastructure, including capitalized costs relating to the implementation of cloud computing arrangements.

Financing activities—Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $459 million. This included repurchases of $288 million in common stock and $171 million in dividends paid to stockholders. Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $315 million. This included repurchases of $159 million in common stock and $156 million in dividends paid to stockholders.

As of December 31, 2021, the Company is authorized to repurchase, from time to time, up to 7.2 million additional shares of the Company’s common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. During the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company repurchased 2.8 million shares, at a cost of $260 million, and 2.5 million shares, at a cost of $138 million, on the open market, respectively. Additional stock repurchases were made in connection with employee stock plans, whereby Company shares were tendered by employees for the payment of exercise price and applicable statutory withholding taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, such repurchases totaled 0.3 million shares, at a cost of $30 million, and 0.4 million shares, at a cost of $17 million, respectively. Repurchases of shares have been funded with cash generated from operations. 

The Company’s working capital as of December 31, 2021 included $619 million in cash and cash equivalents and $985 million in accounts receivable, both of which will be a significant source of ongoing liquidity and financial resilience. The Company expects that internally generated cash will be sufficient to support the working capital needs of the Company, the Company’s fixed payments, dividends, and other obligations on both a short-term and long-term basis.

There is limited visibility into future cash flows as the Company’s revenues are dependent on macroeconomic conditions. The Company’s variable direct costs related to its temporary and consultant staffing business will largely fluctuate in relation to its revenues.

In May 2021, the Company entered into an amendment to extend the maturity of its $100 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) to May 2024. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement will bear interest in accordance with the terms of the borrowing, which typically will be calculated according to the LIBOR, or an alternative base rate, plus an applicable margin. The Credit Agreement is subject to certain financial covenants and the Company was in compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2021. There were no borrowings under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2021 or December 31, 2020. 

On February 10, 2022, the Company announced a quarterly dividend of $.43 per share to be paid to all shareholders of record as of February 25, 2022. The dividend will be paid on March 15, 2022.

Material Cash Requirements from Contractual Obligations

Leases. As of December 31, 2021, the Company reported current and long-term operating lease liabilities of $83.8 million and $181.3 million, respectively. These balances consist of the minimum rental commitments for 2022 and thereafter, discounted to reflect the Company’s cost of borrowing, under noncancelable lease contracts executed as of December 31, 2021. 

24

The majority of these leases are for real estate. In the event the Company vacates a location prior to the end of the lease term, the Company may be obliged to continue making lease payments. For further information, see Note F— “Leases” to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part II—Item 8 of this report.

Purchase Obligations. As of December 31, 2021, the Company incurred contractual purchase obligations of $127.9 million primarily related to software subscriptions, services, telecom service and software maintenance agreements. Of this amount, $70.4 million is expected to be paid within the next twelve months. These purchase obligations are incurred during the normal course of business. 

Employee Deferred Compensation Plan.  As of December 31, 2021, the Company reported deferred compensation plan obligations of $535.3 million in its accompanying consolidated statements of financial position. The balances are due to employees based upon elections they make at the time of deferring their funds. The timing of these payments may change based upon factors including termination of the Company’s employment arrangement with a participant. Assets of these plans are held by an independent trustee for the sole benefit of participating employees and consist of money market funds and mutual funds. For further information, see Note I—“Employee Deferred Compensation Plan Obligations” to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part II—Item 8 of this report.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk