Item 1: Business

Snap-on is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, equipment, diagnostics, repair information and systems solutions for professional users performing critical tasks. Products and services include hand and power tools, tool storage, diagnostic software, handheld and computer-based diagnostic products, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as for customers in industries, such as aviation and aerospace, agriculture, construction, government and military, mining, natural resources, power generation and technical education. Snap-on also derives income from various financing programs designed to facilitate the sales of its products and support its franchise business. 

Snap-on markets its products and brands worldwide through multiple sales distribution channels in more than 130 countries. Snap-on’s largest geographic markets include the United States, Europe, Canada and Asia Pacific. Snap-on reaches its customers through the company’s franchised, company-direct, distributor and internet channels. 

The company began with the development of the original Snap-on interchangeable socket set in 1920 and subsequently pioneered mobile tool distribution in the automotive repair market, where well-stocked vans sell to professional vehicle technicians at their place of business. Today, Snap-on defines its value proposition more broadly, extending its reach “beyond the garage” to deliver a broad array of unique solutions that make work easier for serious professionals performing critical tasks. The company’s “coherent growth” strategy focuses on developing and expanding its professional customer base in its legacy automotive market, as well as in adjacent markets, additional geographies and other areas, including in critical industries, where the cost and penalties for failure can be high. In addition to its coherent growth strategy, Snap-on is committed to its “Value Creation Processes” – a set of strategic principles and processes designed to create value and employed in the areas of (i) safety; (ii) quality; (iii) customer connection; (iv) innovation; and (v) rapid continuous improvement (“RCI”). Snap-on’s RCI initiatives employ a structured set of tools and processes across multiple businesses and geographies intended to eliminate waste and improve operations. Savings from Snap-on’s RCI initiatives reflect benefits from a wide variety of ongoing efficiency, productivity and process improvements, including savings generated from product design cost reductions, improved manufacturing line set-up and change-over practices, lower-cost sourcing initiatives and facility consolidations.

4SNAP-ON INCORPORATED

Snap-on’s primary customer segments include: (i) commercial and industrial customers, including professionals in critical industries and emerging markets; (ii) professional vehicle repair technicians who purchase products through the company’s mobile tool distribution network; and (iii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent and original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) dealership service and repair shops (“OEM dealerships”). Snap-on’s Financial Services customer segment includes: (i) franchisees’ customers, principally serving vehicle repair technicians, and Snap-on customers who require financing for the purchase or lease of tools, diagnostics, and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and (ii) franchisees who require financing options for vehicle and business needs.

Snap-on’s business segments are based on the organization structure used by management for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance. Snap-on’s reportable business segments are: (i) the Commercial & Industrial Group; (ii) the Snap-on Tools Group; (iii) the Repair Systems & Information Group; and (iv) Financial Services. The Commercial & Industrial Group consists of business operations serving a broad range of industrial and commercial customers worldwide, including customers in the aerospace, natural resources, government, power generation, transportation and technical education market segments (collectively, “critical industries”), primarily through direct and distributor channels. The Snap-on Tools Group consists of business operations primarily serving vehicle service and repair technicians through the company’s worldwide mobile tool distribution channel. The Repair Systems & Information Group consists of business operations serving other professional vehicle repair customers worldwide, primarily owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealerships, through direct and distributor channels. Financial Services consists of the business operations of Snap-on Credit LLC (“SOC”), the company’s financial services business in the United States, and Snap-on’s other financial services subsidiaries in those international markets where Snap-on has franchise operations. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on business segments and foreign operations. 

Snap-on evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment revenues, including both external and intersegment net sales, and segment operating earnings. Snap-on accounts for intersegment sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the segments. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment’s operations. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash held at Financial Services), deferred income taxes and certain other assets. All intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at Snap-on’s consolidated financial results.

Recent Acquisitions

Snap-on has continued to broaden its business through a series of coherent acquisitions, which have expanded and enhanced Snap-on’s capabilities in a variety of critical industries and in its business operations serving primarily owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealerships. For information regarding recent acquisitions, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Information Available on the Company’s Website

Additional information about Snap-on, including its products and its sustainability commitment, is available on the company’s website at www.snapon.com. Snap-on is not including the information contained on its website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Snap-on’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, are made available to the public at no charge through the “Investors” section of the company’s website at www.snapon.com. Snap‑on makes such material available on its website as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Copies of any materials the company files with the SEC can also be obtained free of charge through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, Snap-on’s (i) charters for the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, and Organization and Executive Compensation Committees of the company’s Board of Directors; (ii) Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on the company’s website. Snap-on will also post any amendments to these documents, or information about any waivers granted to directors or executive officers with respect to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, on the company’s website at www.snapon.com.

2021 ANNUAL REPORT5

Products and Services

Tools; Diagnostics, Information and Management Systems; and Equipment

Snap-on offers a broad line of products and complementary services that are grouped into three product categories: (i) tools; (ii) diagnostics, information and management systems; and (iii) equipment. Further product line information is not presented as it is not practicable to do so. The following table shows the consolidated net sales of these product categories for the last three years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The tools product category includes hand tools, power tools, tool storage products and other similar products. Hand tools include wrenches, sockets, ratchet wrenches, pliers, screwdrivers, punches and chisels, saws and cutting tools, pruning tools, torque measuring instruments and other similar products. Power tools include cordless (battery), pneumatic (air), hydraulic and corded (electric) tools, such as impact wrenches, ratchets, screwdrivers, drills, sanders, grinders and similar products. Tool storage includes tool chests, roll cabinets and other similar products. For many industrial customers, Snap-on creates specific, engineered solutions, including facility-level tool control and asset management hardware and software, custom kits in a wide range of configurations, and custom-built tools designed to meet customer requirements. The majority of products are manufactured by Snap-on and, in completing the product offering, other items are purchased from external manufacturers.

The diagnostics, information and management systems product category includes handheld and computer-based diagnostic products, service and repair information products, diagnostic software solutions, electronic parts catalogs, business management systems and services, point-of-sale systems, integrated systems for vehicle service shops, OEM purchasing facilitation services, and warranty management systems and analytics to help OEM dealerships manage and track performance.

The equipment product category includes solutions for the service of vehicles and industrial equipment. Products include wheel alignment equipment, wheel balancers, tire changers, vehicle lifts, test lane equipment, collision repair equipment, vehicle air conditioning service equipment, brake service equipment, fluid exchange equipment, transmission troubleshooting equipment, safety testing equipment, battery chargers and hoists.

Snap-on supports the sale of its diagnostics and vehicle service shop equipment by offering training programs as well as after-sales support for its customers, primarily focusing on the technologies and the application of specific products developed and marketed by Snap-on.

6SNAP-ON INCORPORATED

Products are marketed under a number of brand names and trademarks, many of which are well known in the vehicle service and industrial markets served. Some of the major trade names and trademarks and the products and services with which they are associated include the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2021 ANNUAL REPORT7

Financial Services

Snap-on also generates revenue from various financing programs that include: (i) installment sales and lease contracts arising from franchisees’ customers and Snap-on customers who require financing for the purchase or lease of tools, diagnostics, and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and (ii) business and vehicle loans and leases to franchisees. The decision to finance through Snap-on or another financing source is solely by election of the customer. When assessing customers for potential financing, Snap-on considers various factors regarding ability to pay, including the customers’ financial condition, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience, and credit bureau and proprietary Snap-on credit model information, as well as the value of the underlying collateral.

Snap-on offers financing through SOC and the company’s international finance subsidiaries in most markets where Snap-on has franchise operations. Financing revenue from contract originations is recognized over the life of the underlying contracts, with interest or finance charges computed primarily on the average daily balances of the underlying contracts.

Markets

Sales and Distribution

Snap-on markets and distributes its products and related services principally to professional tool and equipment users around the world. The two largest market sectors are the vehicle service and repair sector and the industrial sector.

Vehicle Service and Repair Sector

The vehicle service and repair sector has three main customer groups: (i) professional technicians who purchase tools, diagnostics, and equipment products for use in their work; (ii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealerships who purchase tools, diagnostics, and equipment products for use by multiple technicians within a service or repair facility; and (iii) OEMs.

Snap-on provides innovative tool, equipment and business solutions, as well as technical sales support and training, designed to meet technicians’ evolving needs. Snap-on’s mobile tool distribution system offers technicians the convenience of purchasing quality tools at their place of business with minimal disruption of their work routine. Snap-on also provides owners and managers of repair shops, where technicians work, with tools, diagnostics, equipment, and repair and service information, including electronic parts catalogs and shop management products. Snap-on’s OEM facilitation business provides OEMs with products and services including special and essential tools as well as consulting and facilitation services, which include product procurement, distribution and administrative support to customers for their dealership equipment programs.

The market for vehicle service and repair is driven by an increasing rate of technological change, car and truck population growth and increasing unit life, and the resulting effects of these changes on the businesses of both our suppliers and customers. In recent years, there has been an increase in the development and sales of electric and hybrid vehicles and this trend is expected to continue. Snap-on has historically benefited from the increasing complexity of car and truck fleets and the changing tools, technologies and data needed to monitor, calibrate, service and repair evolving vehicle platforms. While new technologies, including those associated with alternative energy drivetrains and greater vehicle autonomy, may alter the nature of certain service and repair for particular vehicle types, we believe many of these new technologies provide opportunities to fulfill requirements for enhanced solutions or increased precision. Snap-on believes it is well-positioned to innovate new products to address these changing needs and to extend its leadership position in the expanding vehicle service and repair market sector.

Industrial Sector

Snap-on markets its products and services globally to a broad cross-section of commercial and industrial customers, including maintenance and repair operations; manufacturing and assembly facilities; various government agencies, facilities and operations, including military operations; schools with vocational and technical programs; aviation and aerospace operations; oil and gas developers; mining operations; power generation operations, including those associated with alternative energies; equipment fabricators and operators; railroad manufacturing and maintenance; customers in agriculture; infrastructure construction companies; and other customers that require instrumentation, service tools and/or equipment for their products and business needs. The industrial sector for Snap-on focuses on providing value-added products and services to an increasingly expanding global base of customers in critical industries. 

8SNAP-ON INCORPORATED

The industrial sector is characterized by a highly competitive environment with multiple suppliers offering either a full line or industry-specific portfolios for tools and equipment. Industrial customers increasingly require specialized solutions that provide repeatability and reliability in performing tasks of consequence that are specific to the particular end market in which they operate. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the industrial tools and equipment market sector.

Distribution Channels

Snap-on serves customers primarily through the following channels of distribution: (i) the mobile van channel; (ii) company direct sales; (iii) distributors; and (iv) e-commerce. The following discussion summarizes Snap-on’s general approach for each channel and is not intended to be all-inclusive.

Mobile Van Channel

In the United States, a significant portion of sales to the vehicle service and repair sector is conducted through Snap‑on’s mobile franchise van channel. Snap-on’s franchisees primarily serve vehicle repair technicians and vehicle service shop owners, generally providing weekly contact at the customer’s place of business. Franchisees’ sales are concentrated in hand and power tools, tool storage products, shop equipment, diagnostics and repair information products, which can be transported in a van or trailer and demonstrated during a sales call. Franchisees purchase Snap-on’s products at a discount from suggested list prices and resell them at prices established by the franchisee. U.S. franchisees are provided a list of calls that serves as the basis of the franchisee’s sales route. Snap-on’s franchisees also have the opportunity to add a limited number of additional franchises.

Snap-on charges nominal initial and ongoing monthly franchise fees. Franchise fee revenue, including nominal, non-refundable initial and ongoing monthly fees (primarily for sales and business training, marketing and product promotion programs, and technology support), is recognized as the fees are earned. Franchise fee revenue totaled $17.3 million, $16.2 million and $15.4 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

Snap-on also has a company-owned route program that is designed to: (i) provide another pool of potential field organization personnel; (ii) service customers in select new and/or open routes not currently serviced by franchisees; and (iii) allow Snap‑on to pilot new sales and promotional ideas prior to introducing them to franchisees. As of 2021 year end, company-owned routes comprised approximately 4% of the total route population. Snap-on may elect to increase or reduce the number of company-owned routes in the future.

In addition to its mobile van channel in the United States, Snap-on has franchise distribution models in certain other countries, including Canada, the United Kingdom, Japan, Australia, Germany, Netherlands, South Africa, New Zealand, Belgium and Ireland. In many of these markets, as in the United States, purchase decisions are generally made or influenced by professional vehicle service technicians as well as repair shop owners and managers. As of 2021 year end, Snap-on’s worldwide route count was approximately 4,775, including approximately 3,425 routes in the United States.

Through SOC, financing is available to U.S. franchisees, including financing for van leases, working capital loans and loans to help enable new franchisees to fund the purchase of the franchise or the expansion of an existing franchise. In many international markets, Snap-on offers a variety of financing options to its franchisees and/or customer networks through its international finance subsidiaries. The decision to finance through Snap-on or another financing source is solely at the customer’s election.

Snap-on supports its franchisees with a field organization of regional offices, franchise performance teams, customer care centers and distribution centers. Snap-on also provides sales and business training, and marketing and product promotion programs, as well as customer and franchisee financing programs through SOC and the company’s international finance subsidiaries, all of which are designed to strengthen franchisee sales. National Franchise Advisory Councils in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia, composed primarily of franchisees that are elected by franchisees, assist Snap-on in identifying and implementing enhancements to the franchise program.

Company Direct Sales

A significant proportion of shop equipment sales in North America under the John Bean, Hofmann, Blackhawk, Car-O-Liner, Challenger and Pro-Cut brands, diagnostic products under the Snap-on brand, and information and shop management products under the Mitchell1 brand are made by direct and independent sales forces that have responsibility for national and other accounts. As the vehicle service and repair sector consolidates (with more business conducted by national chains and franchised service centers), Snap-on believes these larger organizations can be serviced most effectively by sales people who can demonstrate and sell the full line of diagnostics, equipment, and services. Snap-on also sells these products and services directly to OEMs and their franchised dealers.

2021 ANNUAL REPORT9

Snap-on brand tools and equipment are marketed to industrial and governmental customers worldwide through both industrial sales associates and independent distributors. Selling activities focus on industrial customers whose main purchase criteria are quality and integrated solutions. As of 2021 year end, Snap-on had industrial sales associates and independent distributors primarily in the United States, Canada and in various European, Latin American, Middle Eastern, Asian and African countries, with the United States representing the majority of Snap-on’s total industrial sales.

Snap-on also sells software, services and solutions to the automotive, commercial, heavy duty, agriculture, power equipment and power sports segments. Products and services are marketed to targeted groups, including OEMs and their dealerships, fleets and individual repair shops. To effectively reach OEMs, which frequently have a multi-national presence, Snap-on has deployed focused business teams globally.

Distributors

Sales of certain tools and equipment are made through independent distributors who purchase the items from Snap-on and resell them to end users. Hand tools sold under the BAHCO, Irimo, Lindström, CDI, ATI, Fastorq, Norbar, Sioux, Sturtevant Richmont and Williams brands and trade names, for example, are sold through distributors worldwide. Wheel service and other vehicle service equipment are sold through distributors primarily under brands including Hofmann, John Bean, Car-O-Liner, Challenger, Pro-Cut, Cartec, Blackhawk and Ecotechnics. Diagnostics and equipment products are marketed through distributors in South America and Asia, and through both a direct sales force and distributors in Europe under the Snap-on, Sun and Blue-Point brands.

E-commerce

Snap-on offers current and prospective customers online access to research and purchase products through its public website, www.snapon.com. The site features an online catalog of Snap-on hand tools, power tools, tool storage units and diagnostic equipment available to customers in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia. E-commerce and certain other system enhancement initiatives are designed to improve productivity and further leverage the one-on-one relationships and service Snap-on has with its current and prospective customers. Sales through the company’s e-commerce distribution channel were not significant in any of the last three years.

Competition

Snap-on competes on the basis of its product quality and performance, product line breadth and depth, service, brand awareness and imagery, technological innovation and availability of financing (through SOC or its international finance subsidiaries). While Snap-on does not believe that any single company competes with it across all of its product lines and distribution channels, various companies compete in one or more product categories and/or distribution channels.

Snap-on believes it is a leading manufacturer and distributor of professional tools, tool storage, diagnostics, equipment products, and repair software and solutions, offering a broad line of these products to both vehicle service and industrial marketplaces. Various competitors target and sell to professional technicians in the vehicle service and repair sector through the mobile tool distribution channel. Snap-on also competes with companies that sell tools and equipment to vehicle service and repair technicians online and through retail stores, vehicle parts supply outlets and tool supply warehouses/distributorships. Within the power tools category and the industrial sector, Snap-on has various other competitors, including companies with offerings that overlap with other areas discussed herein. Major competitors selling diagnostics, shop equipment, and information to vehicle dealerships and independent repair shops include OEMs and their proprietary electronic parts catalogs and diagnostics and information systems, and other companies that offer products serving this sector.

Resources

Raw Materials and Purchased Product

Snap-on’s supply of raw materials, including steel, and purchased components are generally available from numerous suppliers and the company continuously works to expand and enhance supplier relationships to meet its supply needs. Snap-on believes it has secured a sufficient amount of raw materials and purchased components for the near future to meet the expected general sales demand. While the company does experience raw material and component cost fluctuations from time to time and from operation to operation, including during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, it endeavors to employ its RCI processes to improve efficiencies and reduce waste to minimize the impact of any cost increases. The company does not currently anticipate experiencing any significant impact in 2022 from raw material and purchased component cost or availability issues. In addition, to date, the company has not observed any meaningful supply shortages or cost increases directly or indirectly resulting from climate change factors.

10SNAP-ON INCORPORATED

Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property

Snap-on vigorously pursues and relies on patent protection to protect its intellectual property and position in its markets. As of 2021 year end, Snap-on and its subsidiaries held approximately 850 active and pending patents in the United States and approximately 2,550 active and pending patents outside of the United States. Sales relating to any single patent did not represent a material portion of Snap-on’s revenues in any of the last three years.

Examples of products that have features or designs that benefit from patent protection include hand tools (including sealed ratchets and ratcheting screwdrivers), power tools, wheel alignment systems, wheel balancers, tire changers, vehicle lifts, tool storage, tool control, collision measurement, test lane equipment, brake lathes, electronic torque instruments, emissions-sensing devices and diagnostic equipment.

Much of the technology used in the manufacture of vehicle service tools and equipment is in the public domain. Snap-on relies primarily on trade secret protection for proprietary processes used in manufacturing. Methods and processes are patented when appropriate. Copyright protection is also utilized when appropriate.

Trademarks used by Snap-on are of continuing importance in the marketplace. Trademarks have been registered in the United States and many other countries, and additional applications for trademark registrations are pending. Snap-on vigorously polices proper use of its trademarks. Snap-on’s right to manufacture and sell certain products is dependent upon licenses from others; however, these products under license do not represent a material portion of Snap-on’s net sales.

Domain names are a valuable corporate asset for companies around the world, including Snap-on. Domain names often contain a trademark or service mark or even a corporate name and are often considered intellectual property. The recognition and value of the Snap-on name, trademark and domain name are core strengths of the company.

Snap-on strategically licenses the Snap-on brand to carefully selected manufacturing and distribution companies for items such as apparel and a variety of other goods, in order to further build brand awareness and market presence for the company’s strongest brand.

Government Regulations

Snap-on is subject to various federal, state and local laws, such as those related to international trade, data privacy, tax and government contracts, as well as environmental laws, ordinances, regulations, and requirements of government authorities in the United States and other nations. At Snap-on, environmental liabilities are managed through the Snap-on Environmental, Health and Safety Management System (“EH & SMS”), which is applied worldwide. The system is based upon continual improvement and is certified to ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018, verified through Det Norske Veritas (DNV) Certification, Inc.

Snap-on believes that it complies with applicable environmental and government requirements in its operations. Expenditures on environmental and governmental matters through EH & SMS have not had a material effect upon Snap-on’s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. However, the increasing global focus on climate change may result in new or more stringent environmental or climate-related regulations or standards. While such regulations have historically created select opportunities for our business operations, the company continually monitors developments in this area.

Human Capital Management

As of January 1, 2022, Snap-on employed approximately 12,800 people worldwide, of which approximately 7,000 were employed in the United States and approximately 5,800 were outside the United States. Based on the most recently filed EEO-1 data, which is available in the “Investors” section on the company’s website at www.snapon.com, females constitute 25.8% and minorities constitute 22.4% of the workforce in the United States. Additionally, on a global basis, approximately 2,700 employees are represented by unions and/or covered under collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates through 2023. In recent years, Snap-on has not experienced any significant work slowdowns, stoppages or other labor disruptions. 

Snap-on is guided by the beliefs and values in the company’s “Who We Are” mission statement and strives to be the “employer of choice” for its current and future associates. Our “Who We Are” beliefs serve as the guidepost against which we evaluate performance in operating reviews throughout the company. Furthermore, through our Snap-on Value Creation Processes, a suite of principles we use every day, the company remains committed to the areas of safety, quality, customer connection, innovation and RCI, which are closely linked to and contribute to improving employee engagement, productivity, and efficiency. 

2021 ANNUAL REPORT11

Successful execution of our way forward is dependent on attracting, developing and retaining key employees and members of our management team, which we achieve through the following:

•Snap-on believes strongly in workplace safety. As a permanent priority agenda item at all operational meetings, safety comes first. Snap-on strives to maintain a safe workplace and expects its employees to broadly embrace the company’s safety programs. Snap-on invests in its strong safety culture and in elevating the importance of worker safety throughout all levels of the organization. For 2021, Snap-on had an overall safety incident rate of 1.01 (number of injuries and illnesses multiplied by 200,000, divided by hours worked).

•Snap-on is committed to its employees and provides developmental opportunities, as well as competitive pay and benefits. Leadership reviews to identify high potential talent in the organization are conducted on an ongoing basis with all business units and on an annual basis with the Board of Directors. Snap-on offers pension, postretirement health care benefits and stock-based compensation as well as other stock plans, including an employee stock purchase plan for associates in the United States and Canada. Additional information related to these plans is included in Notes 12, 13 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other benefits, including skill training and tuition assistance programs, are available to employees, but vary from location to location.

•Snap-on seeks to advance our progress on diversity and inclusion within our company and is committed to providing equal opportunities. The company does not tolerate discrimination. As part of our efforts, Snap-on has instituted company-wide training on inclusion and unconscious bias, and has expanded internship, mentorship and recruitment activities for underrepresented groups. Additionally, to further our support of makers and fixers, both within and outside our company, Snap-on is partnering with national nonprofit organizations and community colleges to leverage career and technical education to expand the opportunities for underrepresented groups in our facilities, as well as in the critical industries we serve and beyond. The company is also investing in and building relationships with several Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) to help advance their missions and broaden the pipeline of Black engineers and other technically trained graduates.

•Snap-on’s people and the behaviors they display define our success, including integrity, respect and teamwork. Annual employee training is used to reinforce ethics, environmental matters, health and safety, information security and regulatory compliance, which includes anti-corruption training for all relevant employees.

Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, Snap-on has generally maintained its headcount and has accommodated its operations to the virus environment. Snap-on has taken what it believes to be appropriate measures to ensure the health and safety of its personnel, including enhancing cleaning protocols, providing protective equipment and providing wages for quarantined associates. Refer to the “Impact of the COVID-19” included in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional information on actions taken by the company in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Social Responsibility and Sustainability Commitment

Snap-on is deeply dedicated to honoring and celebrating the dignity of work. The company supports upskilling the workforce through collaborations with Career and Technical Education (CTE) schools across the United States and throughout the world, and with SkillsUSA and World Skills to engage youth in order to enable and promote technical careers. Additionally, the company is a founding partner of the National Coalition of Certification Centers (NC3), which aims to more effectively match technical school curricula with the precise needs of the current and future workplace by developing, implementing, and sustaining industry-recognized certifications with programs in automotive, aviation, energy, oil and gas, manufacturing and other critical industries. To date, nearly 200,000 students have earned Snap-on certifications, preparing them for successful and satisfying careers across various technical disciplines. 

Snap-on is committed to conducting business and making decisions honestly, ethically, fairly and within the law, and is guided by the company’s “Who We Are” mission statement, which is translated into multiple languages and prominently displayed in our facilities around the world. Snap-on is dedicated to earning and keeping the trust and confidence of its shareholders, customers, franchisees, distributors, retirees and associates, as well as of the communities where the company does business. Snap-on’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides guidelines and a framework for conducting business in an ethical manner. These beliefs go beyond Snap-on and are expected of our suppliers as detailed in the company’s Supplier Code of Conduct. Snap-on has adopted policies that seek to eliminate human trafficking, slavery, forced labor and child labor from its global supply chain. 

12SNAP-ON INCORPORATED

Snap-on prioritizes continuous improvement in all facets of its operations, including environmental matters and health and safety. The company strives to protect environmental quality and human welfare in its workplaces and in its communities by implementing sound policies designed to prevent, mitigate and reduce the company’s impact on the environment. The company has voluntarily reported Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions to the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project) on an annual basis since 2008. As reported to the CDP in 2021, the company’s total GHG emissions of 102,137 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (“CO2e”) reflected an intensity of 28.4 (metric tons of CO2e, divided by net sales in millions), which is 30% lower than when initially reported in 2008.

Snap-on’s sustainability framework is focused on key areas impacting our industry, including energy management, employee health and safety, and material management, and is aligned with the standards of the Value Reporting Foundation (formerly known as the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board or “SASB”). Snap-on’s SASB Index, along with additional information regarding the company’s sustainability commitment, is available in the “Investors” section on the company’s website at www.snapon.com. 

Customers and Seasonality

Snap-on does not have any single customer or government on which its business was substantially dependent in any of the indicated periods. Most of Snap-on’s businesses are not seasonal and their inventory needs are relatively constant.

Item 1A: Risk Factors