Item 1. BUSINESS

General

UDR is a self-administered real estate investment trust, or REIT, that owns, operates, acquires, renovates, develops, redevelops, disposes of, and manages multifamily apartment communities in targeted markets located in the United States. At December 31, 2021, our consolidated real estate portfolio consisted of 160 communities located in 21 markets, consisting of 53,229 completed apartment homes, which are held directly or through our subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership and the DownREIT Partnership, and consolidated joint ventures. In addition, we have an ownership interest in 6,570 completed or to-be-completed apartment homes through unconsolidated joint ventures or partnerships, including 3,733 apartment homes owned by entities in which we hold preferred equity investments. At December 31, 2021, the Company was developing five wholly-owned communities totaling 1,417 homes, none of which have been completed.

UDR has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to in this Report as the “Code.” To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must continue to meet certain tests which, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (other than our net capital gains) to our stockholders annually. As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes at the corporate level on our net income to the extent we distribute such net income to our stockholders annually. In 2021, we declared total distributions of $1.45 per common share and paid dividends of $1.4475 per common share.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

UDR was formed in 1972 as a Virginia corporation. In June 2003, we changed our state of incorporation from Virginia to Maryland. Our corporate offices are located at 1745 Shea Center Drive, Suite 200, Highlands Ranch, Colorado and our telephone number is (720) 283-6120. Our website is www.udr.com. The information contained on our website, including any information referred to in this Report as being available on our website, is not a part of or incorporated into this Report.

As of December 31, 2021, there were 186.1 million units in the Operating Partnership (“OP Units”) outstanding, of which 176.2 million OP Units (including 0.1 million of general partnership units), or 94.7%, were owned by UDR and 9.9 million OP Units, or 5.3%, were owned by outside limited partners. As of December 31, 2021, there were 32.4 million units in the DownREIT Partnership (“DownREIT Units”) outstanding, of which 20.6 million, or 63.6%, were owned by UDR and its subsidiaries and 11.8 million, or 36.4%, were owned by outside limited partners. The consolidated financial statements of UDR include the noncontrolling interests of the unitholders in the Operating Partnership and DownREIT Partnership.

Human Capital Management

​

As of February 11, 2022, we had 1,219 full-time associates and 10 part-time associates, all of whom were employed by UDR. Of such number 815 associates are employed in roles that are located at or that are solely related to our communities and the remainder are employed in corporate roles. Recruiting and retaining our associates, as well as assisting them in their professional development, are critically important in successfully managing our business. UDR’s culture is one based on innovation, inclusion, empowerment, adaptability, and execution, and understanding and maintaining our culture is fundamental to recruiting and retaining associates. To that end, in 2020 we updated our culture statement and launched an associate facing culture website to ensure that our associates understand our culture and have an opportunity to participate in its evolution.

​

4 
Associate Compensation

​

Attracting, developing, and retaining high-quality and diverse associates are critical to the long-term success of our Company. Implementing fair, non-biased compensation practices is our starting point. We also use various recruiting methods depending on job function, including an associate referral program, internet-based recruiting platforms, and third-party recruiting agencies. With respect to compensation, we utilize market surveys and other third-party information when determining salary ranges, and we design our compensation programs to include bonus potential to incentivize performance. In addition, we evaluate gender- and diversity-based job-title-specific compensation metrics quarterly to actively monitor pay equity, identify areas for improvement and as part of the Company’s on-going Next Generation Platform implementation. These results are provided annually to our Board of Directors.

​

Associate Growth and Development

​

We believe that training is important to our associates’ job satisfaction, is essential to furthering their effectiveness, and helps in career advancement and associate retention, helping us to create a more efficient workforce. Accordingly, we offer a wide variety of training opportunities. In addition to training designed to address regulatory and statutory matters (e.g., harassment, cybersecurity, fair housing, etc.), associates have the option of participating in management development through our Certified Manager and Career Mobility Programs. These programs are designed to enable our associates to acquire skills that will be useful to them as they progress in their career. In total, there are over 5,000 courses available to our associates. Examples of program topics include: leasing skills, basic property maintenance, customer service, project management, and system applications. In aggregate, our associates engaged in 24,422 hours of training in 2021, or an average of 20 hours per associate. In addition, we enhanced our controls around required training to ensure that associates complete these courses in a timely manner. As of our 2021 year end measurement, 91% of associates completed annual technology IT security training, 99% of associates completed fair housing training, 96% of associates completed annual harassment training, 97% of associates completed diversity and inclusion training, and 95% of associates completed our annual business ethics training. 

​

Certifications are important in the apartment business, and we encourage our associates to become professionally certified in areas that interest them and are beneficial to the Company. Certifications range from master’s degree programs to certified property manager programs, to technical licenses for HVAC systems, all of which equip our associates with knowledge and the potential for career-expansion opportunities. UDR offers partial tuition reimbursement related to attaining these certifications.

​

Each UDR associate is required to engage in an annual performance review with their direct supervisor. Among other things, the performance review establishes the associate’s training plans for the upcoming year and provides feedback on career development for each associate.

​

In addition, we monitor associate turnover and take action when issues are identified if appropriate.

​

Diversity and Inclusion

​

We are committed to creating and maintaining a diverse and inclusive workplace environment that supports the development and advancement of all associates.

​

As of December 31, 2021, our total workforce is 59% male and 41% female. The ethnicity of our workforce is 56% White, 26% Hispanic/Latino, 10% Black, 3% Asian and 5% Other. “Other” includes: American Indian, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander, Not Specified or two or more races.

​

As of December 31, 2021, our management team (associates with the title of community director or director and higher job classifications) is 53% male and 47% female. The ethnicity of our management team is 80% White and 20% non-White.

​

Over the three-year period ending December 31, 2021, 642 associates were promoted. Of the associates that were promoted to the positions of community director, director, or a higher job classification during the period, 51% were female and 22% were non-White.

​

5 
Associate Engagement and Outreach

​

We conduct an associate engagement survey every two to three years, which surveys all associates on a variety of issues. The results of our 2021 survey showed that 94% of associates feel that they can build relationships with colleagues, 89% of associates feel that they are treated fairly and 87% of associates feel that they can succeed and thrive at work. We believe that our associates should also be involved in their communities and that we should assist with those efforts. In 2019, UDR provided 2,558 hours of paid time off for our associates to be used for volunteer work with more than 25 local organizations that make a difference in the communities in which we operate. UDR provides paid time off during specified, Company-wide volunteer days in 2019 and our associates responded with a 25% year-over-year increase in volunteer hours. While the COVID-19 pandemic negatively affected the program in 2020, we were able to re-implement it on a limited basis in 2021. 

​

COVID-19 and Employee Safety, Health and Wellness

​

The safety, health and wellness of our associates is a top priority for our associates. The COVID-19 pandemic provided unique challenges to the Company. In response, we developed a number of integrated policies and programs since the beginning of the pandemic to help ensure the safety and well-being of our associates:

​

•Personal Protective Equipment

•Additional time off for COVID-related matters

•One-time bonuses

•Flexible work schedules

•Work-from-home options

•Vacation buy-out programs

•Mental wellness programs

These policies and programs have continued to evolve as the landscape has changed during the pandemic.

​

In addition, in connection with on-going efforts with respect to associate health and well-being in 2020, we distributed to all associates a brochure setting forth the mental health programs that our associates may access. In early 2021, we rolled out access to a confidential on-demand behavioral health support mobile application, providing associates 24/7 access to a care team comprised of coaches and mental health professionals through text-based chats and self-guided activities at no cost to the associate. We also provide all associates with the opportunity to participate in a wide set of employee benefits, including health, dental and vision insurance coverage.

​

​

Reporting Segments

We report in two segments: Same-Store Communities and Non-Mature Communities/Other.

Our Same-Store Communities segment represents those communities acquired, developed, and stabilized prior to January 1, 2020, and held as of December 31, 2021. These communities were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year, there is no plan to conduct substantial redevelopment activities, and the communities are not classified as held for disposition at year end. A community is considered to have stabilized occupancy once it achieves 90% occupancy for at least three consecutive months.

Our Non-Mature Communities/Other segment represents those communities that do not meet the criteria to be included in Same-Store Communities, including, but not limited to, recently acquired, developed and redeveloped communities, and the non-apartment components of mixed use properties. For additional information regarding our operating segments, see Note 16, Reportable Segments, in the Notes to the UDR Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.

6 
Business Objectives

Our principal business objective is to maximize the economic returns of our apartment communities to provide our stockholders with the greatest possible total return and value. To achieve this objective, we intend to continue to pursue the following goals and strategies:

●own and operate a diversified portfolio of apartments in targeted markets in the United States, which are characterized by strong total income growth, high working age population growth, relatively robust rental versus single-family home affordability and measured new supply growth, thus enhancing stability and predictability of returns to our stockholders;

●manage real estate cycles by taking an opportunistic approach to buying, selling, renovating, redeveloping, and developing apartment communities;

●empower site associates to manage our communities efficiently and effectively;

●measure and reward associates based on specific performance targets; and

●manage our capital structure to provide a low relative cost of capital to enhance profitability and predictability of liquidity, earnings and dividends.

2021 Highlights

Commitment to Shareholders

● In July 2021, the Company marked its 49th year as a REIT and, in November 2021, paid its 196th consecutive quarterly dividend. The Company’s annualized declared 2021 dividend of $1.45 represented a 0.7% increase over the previous year.

Property Operations

●

Net income attributable to common stockholders was $145.8 million as compared to $60.0 million in the prior year. The increase was primarily driven by higher total net operating income (“NOI”), higher gains from dispositions of real estate, higher investment income from unconsolidated entities primarily due to unrealized gains from SmartRent, Inc. (“SmartRent”), a portfolio investment of an unconsolidated fund, becoming a public company, lower interest expense primarily due to lower debt extinguishment costs and lower interest rates partially offset by higher debt balances.

●Total revenues increased 4.0% over the prior year primarily due to communities acquired during 2021 and 2020 and overall rent growth.

● 

We achieved Same-Store revenue growth of 1.5% and Same-Store NOI growth of 0.5%.

Investing and Developments

● We acquired a to-be-developed parcel of land located in Tampa, Florida, for approximately $6.6 million.

● We previously had a secured note with an unaffiliated third party with an aggregate commitment of $20.0 million. The note was secured by a parcel of land and related land improvements located in Alameda, California. The developer defaulted on the loan, and as a result of the default, we took title to the property pursuant to a deed in lieu of foreclosure.

● We commenced the development of one community located in Addison, Texas, with a total of 405 apartment homes.

● We acquired or increased our ownership interest in twelve operating communities with a total of 5,426 apartment homes located in markets within which we already operate for a combined purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion.

7 
● We recognized gains of $136.1 million from the sale of two operating communities located in Anaheim, California.

● We contributed $64.6 million to three investments under our Developer Capital Program, which earn preferred returns ranging between 9.0% and 9.7%.

Balance Sheet

●We assumed three fixed rate mortgage notes payable with an aggregate outstanding balance of $183.3 million and a fair value of $201.3 million in connection with the acquisition of three operating properties, which carry a weighted average interest rate of 3.93%. 

​

●We entered into an amended and restated credit agreement, which increased our maximum aggregate borrowing capacity on our unsecured revolving credit facility to $1.3 billion from $1.1 billion, extended the maturity date to January 31, 2026, with two six-month extensions, and lowered the margin range for the interest rate. The amended agreement also extended the maturity date of our $350.0 million unsecured term loan to January 31, 2027 and lowered the margin range for the interest rate.

● We amended our Working Capital Credit Facility to extend the maturity date from January 14, 2022 to January 12, 2024 and lowered the margin range for the interest rate.

● We issued $300.0 million of 2.10% senior unsecured medium-term notes due June 15, 2033. The proceeds were used to redeem all of our $300.0 million 4.00% senior unsecured medium-term notes due October 2025.

● We issued an additional $200.0 million of our 3.00% medium-term notes due 2031. This was a further issuance of and forms a single series with the $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2031 Notes that were issued in August 2019. The notes were priced at 106.388% of the principal amount to yield 2.259%.

● We settled 19.5 million shares under forward sales agreements as part of our ATM programs and previously announced forward sales agreements for net proceeds of approximately $899.1 million.

Corporate Responsibility Report

We have published our 2021 Annual Corporate Responsibility Report on our website, which discloses our environmental and social programs and performance. The report’s Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) disclosures were prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards (core), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards, and the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) framework.

​

Refer to Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further information on the Company’s activities in 2021.

COVID-19 Update

On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic, and on March 13, 2020, the United States declared a national emergency with respect to COVID-19. The pandemic led governments and other authorities around the world, including federal, state and local authorities in the United States, to impose measures intended to control its spread, including restrictions on freedom of movement and business operations such as travel bans, border closings, business closures, quarantines and shelter-in-place or similar orders. While many of such measures have been lifted, they may be reinstated or other measures imposed. Further, while vaccines have been developed and are being administered, it is unclear when or if vaccines may allow a return to full pre-pandemic activity levels.

While operations have been allowed to fully or partially re-open, no assurance can be given that closures or restrictions will not be reinstated or new measures imposed in the future. Our headquarters, all of our properties and our 

8 
corporate offices are located in areas that have been subject to shelter-in-place orders and restrictions on the types of businesses that may continue to operate or the manner in which they may operate, for example restrictions on capacity. These orders and restrictions and other impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, the ability of our residents and retail and commercial tenants to pay their rent. It is still uncertain how various legislation or orders adopted by the federal government and state and local governments, or those that may be modified or enacted in the future, may continue to impact the ability of our residents and retail and commercial tenants to pay their rent. The governmental actions intended to prevent the spread of COVID-19 also caused us to reduce staffing at certain of our locations, and have impacted, and may continue to impact, our ability to conduct our business in the ordinary course. Further, the federal government and a number of the states, counties and municipalities in which we operate have adopted, and may extend or reinstate, eviction moratoriums, either directly or indirectly (such as through direction to law enforcement or courts not to serve notices or take actions related to eviction) or have otherwise modified their eviction processes or requirements, which have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, our ability to enforce our legal and contractual rights and our ability to remove, in a timely manner, residents or retail and commercial tenants who are not paying their rent and our ability to rent their units or other space to new residents or retail and commercial tenants, respectively. In addition, certain jurisdictions have restricted our ability to charge certain fees, including fees for late payment of rent, and certain jurisdictions have adopted limits on our ability to increase rents. Earlier in the pandemic, we received more requests from our residents and retail and commercial tenants for assistance with respect to paying rent than we have historically received. In response, we instituted a number of initiatives to assist residents and other tenants, including rent deferrals, payment plans, and waiving late payment fees when appropriate. Recently, the federal government has allocated funds to rent relief programs run by state and local authorities. Certain of such programs were slow to begin operating and in certain locations funds are taking longer than expected to be distributed. Further, in certain locations, adequate funds may not exist to assist with all unpaid rent. Additionally, certain of our residents with past due rent may not qualify to receive assistance under such programs. In addition, some of such programs have required, and programs in the future may require, the forgiveness of a portion of the past due rent or other limitations or restrictions in order to participate, or may only provide funds to pay a portion of the past due rent. It remains uncertain how such programs will impact our business. Also vaccine mandates that have been adopted or may be adopted by the federal government or in states and localities in which we operate may impact our ability to operate our business in the ordinary course. 

​

During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company performed an analysis in accordance with the ASC 842, Leases, guidance to assess the collectibility of its operating lease receivables in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. This analysis included an assessment of collectibility of current and future rents and whether those lease payments were no longer probable of collection. In accordance with the leases guidance, if lease payments are no longer deemed to be probable over the life of the lease contract, we recognize revenue only when cash is received, and all existing contractual operating lease receivables and straight-line lease receivables are reserved. 

 ​

As a result of its analysis, the Company reduced its reserve to approximately $13.2 million for multifamily tenant lease receivables and increased its reserve to approximately $6.1 million for retail tenant lease receivables (inclusive of $4.0 million of reserves on straight-line lease receivables) for its wholly-owned communities and communities held by joint ventures. In aggregate, the reduction in reserve is reflected as a $0.1 million increase to Rental income and a $0.1 million increase to Income/(loss) from unconsolidated entities on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company reserved approximately $13.5 million of multifamily tenant lease receivables and approximately $6.0 million of retail tenant lease receivables (inclusive of $3.3 million of reserves on straight-line lease receivables) for its wholly-owned communities and communities held by joint ventures. In aggregate, the reserve is reflected as a $18.4 million reduction to Rental income and a $1.1 million reduction to Income/(loss) from unconsolidated entities on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2020. The impact to deferred leasing commissions was not material for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.

​

During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $3.1 million on its investment in equity securities of a non-core investment. The Company did not recognize any other adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets or asset impairment charges due to the COVID-19 pandemic for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.

​

As of January 31, 2022, we had collected 97.3%, 96.7% and 95.7% of billed monthly rents for our multifamily residents for October, November and December, respectively. January cash rents received are similar when compared to those for October, November and December at corresponding times of prior months.

​

9 
Our Strategic Vision

Our strategic vision is to be the multifamily public REIT of choice. We intend to realize this vision by executing on our strategic objectives, which are:

1.Maintaining a Diversified Portfolio and Allocating Capital to Accretive Investment Opportunities

2.Maintaining a Strong Balance Sheet

3.Consistently Driving Operating Excellence

4.Advancing a Strong Corporate Culture and Ensuring High Resident Satisfaction

Maintaining a Diversified Portfolio and Allocating Capital to Accretive Investment Opportunities

We believe greater portfolio diversification, as defined by geographic concentration, location within a market (i.e., urban or suburban) and property quality (i.e., A or B), reduces the volatility of our same-store growth throughout the real estate cycle, appeals to a wider renter and investor audience and lessens the market risk associated with owning a homogenous portfolio. Diversified characteristics of our portfolio include:

●our consolidated apartment portfolio includes 160 communities located in 21 markets throughout the U.S., including both coastal and sunbelt locations;

●our communities that are located proximate to each other within a market provide enhanced economics; and

●our mix of urban/suburban communities is approximately 30%/70% and our mix of A/B quality properties is approximately 42%/58%.

We are focused on increasing our presence in markets with favorable job formation, high propensity to rent, low single-family home affordability, and a favorable demand/supply ratio for multifamily housing. Portfolio investment decisions consider internal analyses and third-party research.

Acquisitions and Dispositions

When evaluating potential acquisitions, we consider a wide variety of factors, including:

●high working age population growth, relatively robust rental versus single-family home affordability, measured new supply growth, overall potential for strong total income growth;

●the tax and regulatory environment of the market in which the property is located;

●geographic location, including proximity to jobs, entertainment, transportation, and our existing communities which can deliver significant economies of scale;

●construction quality, condition and design of the property;

●current and projected cash flow of the property and the ability to increase cash flow;

●ability of the property’s projected returns to exceed our cost of capital;

●potential for capital appreciation of the property;

●ability to increase the value and profitability of the property through operations and redevelopment;

●terms of resident leases, including the potential for rent increases;

●occupancy and demand by residents for properties of a similar type in the vicinity;

●prospects for liquidity through sale, financing or refinancing of the property; and

●competition from existing multifamily communities and the potential for the construction of new multifamily properties in the area.

10 
We regularly monitor our assets to increase the quality and performance of our portfolio. Factors we consider in deciding whether to dispose of a property include:

●whether it is in a market targeted for divestment or a reduction in investment;

●current market price for an asset compared to projected economics for that asset;

●potential increases in new construction in the market area;

●areas with low job growth prospects;

●near- and long-term capital expenditure needs for the asset; and

●operating efficiencies.

The following table summarizes our apartment community acquisitions and dispositions and our consolidated year-end ownership position for the past five years (dollars in thousands):[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

Development Activities

Our objective in developing a community is to create value while improving the quality of our portfolio. How demographic trends, economic drivers, and multifamily fundamentals and valuations have trended over the long-term and our portfolio strategy generally govern our review process on where and when to allocate development capital. At December 31, 2021, the Company was developing five wholly-owned communities located in Addison, Texas, Denver, Colorado, Dublin, California, Washington, D.C., and King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, totaling 1,417 homes, none of which have been completed, with a budget of $501.5 million, in which we have an investment of $388.6 million. The communities are estimated to be completed between the second quarter of 2022 and the second quarter of 2023. 

Redevelopment Activities

Our objective in redeveloping a community is twofold: we aim to grow rental rates while also producing a higher yielding and more valuable asset through asset quality improvement. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we incurred $40.3 million in major renovations, which included major structural changes and/or architectural revisions to existing buildings. As of December 31, 2021, the Company was not redeveloping any communities.

Joint Venture and Partnership Activities

We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures (including limited liability companies or partnerships) through which we would own an indirect economic interest of less than 100% of the community or communities owned directly by such joint ventures. Our decision to either hold an apartment community in fee simple or have an indirect interest in the community through a joint venture is based on a variety of factors and considerations, including: (i) the economic and tax terms required by the seller of land or a community; (ii) our desire to diversify our portfolio of communities by market, submarket and product type; (iii) our desire at times to preserve our capital resources to maintain liquidity or balance sheet strength; and (iv) our projections, in some circumstances, that we will achieve higher returns on our invested capital or reduce our risk if a joint venture vehicle is used. Each joint venture agreement is individually negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture agreement.

Maintaining a Strong Balance Sheet

We maintain a capital structure that we believe allows us to proactively source potential investment opportunities in the marketplace. We have structured our debt maturity schedule to be able to opportunistically access both secured and unsecured debt markets when appropriate.

11 
As part of our plan to finance our activities, we utilize proceeds from debt and equity offerings and refinancings to extend maturities, pay down existing debt, fund development and redevelopment activities, and acquire apartment communities.

Consistently Driving Operational Excellence

Investment in new technologies continues to drive operating efficiencies in our business and help us to better meet the changing needs of our business and our residents. Our residents can conduct business with us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and complete online leasing applications and renewals throughout our portfolio using our web-based resident internet portal or, increasingly, a smart-device application.

As a result of transforming our operations through technology, residents’ satisfaction has improved, and our operating teams have become more efficient. Web-based technologies have also resulted in declining marketing and advertising costs, improved cash management, and better pricing management of our available apartment homes.

Competitive Conditions

Competition for new residents is generally intense across our markets. Some competing communities offer amenities that our communities do not have. Competing communities can use rental concessions or lower rents to obtain temporary competitive advantages. Also, some competing communities are larger or newer than our communities. The competitive position of each community is different depending upon many factors, including sub-market supply and demand. In addition, other real estate investors compete with us to acquire existing properties, redevelop existing properties, and to develop new properties. These competitors include insurance companies, pension and investment funds, public and private real estate companies, investment companies and other public and private apartment REITs, some of which may have greater resources, or lower capital costs, than we do.

We believe that, in general, we are well-positioned to compete effectively for residents and investments. We believe our competitive advantages include:

●a fully integrated organization with property management, development, redevelopment, acquisition, marketing, sales and financing expertise;

●scalable operating and support systems, which include automated systems to meet the changing electronic needs of our residents and to effectively focus on our internet marketing efforts;

●access to sources of capital;

●geographic diversification with a presence in 21 markets across the country; and

●significant presence in many of our major markets that allows us to be a local operating expert.

Moving forward, we will continue to optimize lease management, improve expense control, increase resident retention efforts and align employee incentive plans with metrics that impact our bottom-line performance. We believe this plan of operation, coupled with the portfolio’s strengths in targeting renters across a geographically diverse platform, should position us for continued operational upside.

Communities

At December 31, 2021, our consolidated real estate portfolio included 160 communities with a total of 53,229 completed apartment homes. The overall quality of our portfolio generally enables us to raise rents and to attract residents with higher levels of disposable income who are more likely to absorb such rents.

At December 31, 2021, the Company was developing five wholly-owned communities located in Addison, Texas, Denver, Colorado, Dublin, California, Washington, D.C., and King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, totaling 1,417 homes, none of which have been completed, with a budget of $501.5 million, in which we have an investment of $388.6 million. The communities are estimated to be completed between the second quarter of 2022 and the second quarter of 2023.

At December 31, 2021, the Company was not redeveloping any communities.

12 
Same-Store Community Comparison

We believe that one pertinent quantitative measurement of the performance of our portfolio is tracking the results of our Same-Store Communities’ NOI, which is total rental revenue, less rental and other operating expenses excluding property management. Our Same-Store Community population is comprised of operating communities which we own and have stabilized occupancy, revenues and expenses as of the beginning of the prior year.

Net income attributable to common stockholders was $145.8 million as compared to $60.0 million in the prior year. The increase was primarily driven by higher total NOI, higher gains from dispositions of real estate, higher investment income from unconsolidated entities primarily due to unrealized gains from SmartRent, a portfolio investment of an unconsolidated fund becoming a public company, lower interest expense primarily due to lower debt extinguishment costs and lower interest rates, partially offset by higher debt balances.

For the year ended December 31, 2021, our Same-Store NOI increased by $3.9 million compared to the prior year. Our Same-Store Community properties provided 91.2% of our total NOI for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase in NOI for the 45,143 Same-Store apartment homes, or 84.8% of our portfolio, was primarily driven by lower rent concessions, lower vacancy, lower bad debt expense, a decrease in personnel expense and an increase in reimbursement, ancillary and fee income, partially offset by a decrease in rental rates and higher repair and maintenance expense, insurance expense, and real estate tax expense.

Revenue growth in 2022 may be impacted by adverse developments affecting the general economy, inclusive of economic conditions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, reduced occupancy rates, increased rental concessions, new supply, increased bad debt and other factors which may adversely impact our ability to increase rents.

Tax Matters

UDR has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code. To continue to qualify as a REIT, UDR must continue to meet certain tests that, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (other than net capital gains) to our stockholders annually. Provided we maintain our qualification as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes at the corporate level on our net income to the extent such net income is distributed to our stockholders annually. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property.

We may utilize our taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”) to engage in activities that REITs may be prohibited from performing, including the provision of management and other services to third parties and the conduct of certain nonqualifying real estate transactions. Our TRS generally is taxable as a regular corporation, and therefore, subject to federal, state and local income taxes.

Inflation 

Inflation primarily impacts our results of operations as a result of wage pressures and increases in utilities and repair and maintenance costs. In addition, inflation could also impact our general and administrative expenses, the interest on our debt if variable or refinanced in a high-inflationary environment, and our cost of development activities. However, the majority of our apartment leases have initial terms of 12 months or less, which generally enables us to compensate for inflationary effects by increasing rents on our apartment homes. Although an extreme escalation in costs could have a negative impact on our residents and their ability to absorb rent increases, we do not believe this had a material impact on our results for the year ended December 31, 2021.

Environmental Matters

Various environmental laws govern certain aspects of the ongoing operation of our communities. Such environmental laws include those regulating the existence of asbestos-containing materials in buildings, management of surfaces with lead-based paint (and notices to residents about the lead-based paint), use of active underground petroleum storage tanks, and waste-management activities. The failure to comply with such requirements could subject us to a government enforcement action and/or claims for damages by a private party.

To date, compliance with federal, state and local environmental protection regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. We have a property management plan for hazardous 

13 
materials. As part of the plan, Phase I environmental site investigations and reports have been completed for each property we acquire. In addition, all proposed acquisitions are inspected prior to acquisition. The inspections are conducted by qualified environmental consultants, and we review the issued report prior to the purchase or development of any property. Nevertheless, it is possible that the environmental assessments will not reveal all environmental liabilities, or that some material environmental liabilities exist of which we are unaware. In some cases, we have abandoned otherwise economically attractive acquisitions because the costs of removal or control of hazardous materials have been prohibitive or we have been unwilling to accept the potential risks involved. We do not believe we will be required to engage in any large-scale abatement at any of our properties. We believe that through professional environmental inspections and testing for asbestos, lead paint and other hazardous materials, coupled with a relatively conservative posture toward accepting known environmental risk, we can minimize our exposure to potential liability associated with environmental hazards.

Federal legislation requires owners and landlords of residential housing constructed prior to 1978 to disclose to potential residents or purchasers of the communities any known lead paint hazards and imposes treble damages for failure to provide such notification. In addition, lead based paint in any of the communities may result in lead poisoning in children residing in that community if chips or particles of such lead based paint are ingested, and we may be held liable under state laws for any such injuries caused by ingestion of lead based paint by children living at the communities.

We are unaware of any environmental hazards at any of our properties that individually or in the aggregate may have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial position. We have not been notified by any governmental authority, and we are not otherwise aware, of any material non-compliance, liability, or claim relating to environmental liabilities in connection with any of our properties. We do not believe that the cost of continued compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on us or our financial condition or results of operations. Future environmental laws, regulations, or ordinances, however, may require additional remediation of existing conditions that are not currently actionable. Also, if more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, the costs of compliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition.

Insurance

We carry comprehensive general liability coverage on our communities, with limits of liability customary within the multi-family apartment industry to insure against liability claims and related defense costs. We are also insured, with limits of liability customary within the multi-family apartment industry, against the risk of direct physical damage in amounts necessary to reimburse us on a replacement cost basis for costs incurred to repair or rebuild each property, including loss of rental income during the reconstruction period.

Available Information

We file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports on the day of filing with the SEC on our website at www.udr.com, or by sending an e-mail message to ir@udr.com.

​

14 
Item 1A.

RISK FACTORS