Financial Review

Overview

Wells Fargo & Company is a leading financial services company that has approximately $1.9 trillion in assets, proudly serves one in three U.S. households and more than 10% of small businesses in the U.S., and is the leading middle market banking provider in the U.S. We provide a diversified set of banking, investment and mortgage products and services, as well as consumer and commercial finance, through our four reportable operating segments: Consumer Banking and Lending, Commercial Banking, Corporate and Investment Banking, and Wealth and Investment Management. Wells Fargo ranked No. 37 on Fortune’s 2021 rankings of America’s largest corporations. We ranked fourth in assets and third in the market value of our common stock among all U.S. banks at December 31, 2021. 

Wells Fargo’s top priority remains building a risk and control infrastructure appropriate for its size and complexity. The Company is subject to a number of consent orders and other regulatory actions, which may require the Company, among other things, to undertake certain changes to its business, operations, products and services, and risk management practices. Addressing these regulatory actions is expected to take multiple years, and we are likely to experience issues or delays along the way in satisfying their requirements. Issues or delays with one regulatory action could affect our progress on others, and failure to satisfy the requirements of a regulatory action on a timely basis could result in additional penalties, enforcement actions, and other negative consequences, which could be significant. While we still have significant work to do, the Company is committed to devoting the resources necessary to operate with strong business practices and controls, maintain the highest level of integrity, and have an appropriate culture in place.

Federal Reserve Board Consent Order Regarding Governance Oversight and Compliance and Operational Risk Management

On February 2, 2018, the Company entered into a consent order with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB). As required by the consent order, the Company’s Board of Directors (Board) submitted to the FRB a plan to further enhance the Board’s governance and oversight of the Company, and the Company submitted to the FRB a plan to further improve the Company’s compliance and operational risk management program. The Company continues to engage with the FRB as the Company works to address the consent order provisions. The consent order also requires the Company, following the FRB’s acceptance and approval of the plans and the Company’s adoption and implementation of the plans, to complete an initial third-party review of the enhancements and improvements provided for in the plans. Until this third-party review is complete 

and the plans are approved and implemented to the satisfaction of the FRB, the Company’s total consolidated assets as defined under the consent order will be limited to the level as of December 31, 2017. Compliance with this asset cap is measured on a two-quarter daily average basis to allow for management of temporary fluctuations. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, on April 8, 2020, the FRB amended the consent order to allow the Company to exclude from the asset cap any on-balance sheet exposure resulting from loans made by the Company in connection with the Small Business Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program and the FRB’s Main Street Lending Program. As required under the amendment to the consent order, to the extent the Company chooses to exclude these exposures from the asset cap, certain fees and other economic benefits received by the Company from loans made in connection with these programs shall be transferred to the U.S. Treasury or to nonprofit organizations approved by the FRB that support small businesses. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had not excluded these exposures from the asset cap. After removal of the asset cap, a second third-party review must also be conducted to assess the efficacy and sustainability of the enhancements and improvements.

Consent Orders with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency Regarding Compliance Risk Management Program, Automobile Collateral Protection Insurance Policies, and Mortgage Interest Rate Lock Extensions

On April 20, 2018, the Company entered into consent orders with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) to pay an aggregate of $1 billion in civil money penalties to resolve matters regarding the Company’s compliance risk management program and past practices involving certain automobile collateral protection insurance (CPI) policies and certain mortgage interest rate lock extensions. As required by the consent orders, the Company submitted to the CFPB and OCC an enterprise-wide compliance risk management plan and a plan to enhance the Company’s internal audit program with respect to federal consumer financial law and the terms of the consent orders. In addition, as required by the consent orders, the Company submitted for non-objection plans to remediate customers affected by the automobile collateral protection insurance and mortgage interest rate lock matters, as well as a plan for the management of remediation activities conducted by the Company. The Company continues to work to address the provisions of the consent orders. The Company has not yet satisfied certain aspects of the consent orders, and as a result, we believe regulators may impose additional penalties or take other 

2Wells Fargo & Company

enforcement actions. On September 9, 2021, the OCC assessed a $250 million civil money penalty against the Company related to insufficient progress in addressing requirements under the OCC’s April 2018 consent order and loss mitigation activities in the Company’s Home Lending business.

Consent Order with the OCC Regarding Loss Mitigation Activities

On September 9, 2021, the Company entered into a consent order with the OCC requiring the Company to improve the execution, risk management, and oversight of loss mitigation activities in its Home Lending business. In addition, the consent order restricts the Company from acquiring certain third-party residential mortgage servicing and limits transfers of certain mortgage loans requiring customer remediation out of the Company’s mortgage servicing portfolio until remediation is provided.

Retail Sales Practices Matters and Other Customer Remediation Activities

In September 2016, we announced settlements with the CFPB, the OCC, and the Office of the Los Angeles City Attorney, and entered into related consent orders with the CFPB and the OCC, in connection with allegations that some of our retail customers received products and services they did not request. As a result, it remains a priority to rebuild trust through a comprehensive action plan that includes making things right for our customers, employees, and other stakeholders, and building a better Company for the future. On September 8, 2021, the CFPB consent order regarding retail sales practices expired.

Our priority of rebuilding trust has also included an effort to identify other areas or instances where customers may have experienced financial harm, provide remediation as appropriate, and implement additional operational and control procedures. We are working with our regulatory agencies in this effort. We have previously disclosed key areas of focus as part of our rebuilding trust efforts and are in the process of providing remediation for those matters. We have accrued for the probable and estimable remediation costs related to our rebuilding trust efforts, which amounts may change based on additional facts and information, as well as ongoing reviews and communications with our regulators. As our ongoing reviews continue and as we continue to strengthen our risk and control infrastructure, we have identified and may in the future identify additional items or areas of potential concern. To the extent issues are identified, we will continue to assess any customer harm and provide remediation as appropriate. 

For additional information regarding retail sales practices matters and other customer remediation activities, including related legal and regulatory risk, see the “Risk Factors” section and Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Recent Developments

COVID-19 Pandemic

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have been working diligently to protect employee safety while continuing to carry out Wells Fargo’s role as a provider of essential services to the public. We have taken comprehensive steps to help customers, employees and communities.

We have strong levels of capital and liquidity, and we remain focused on delivering for our customers and communities to get through these unprecedented times.

PAYCHECK PROTECTION PROGRAM The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) created funding for the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) loan program providing forgiveness of up to the full principal amount of qualifying loans guaranteed under a program called the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP). We funded approximately $14.0 billion in loans under the PPP. At December 31, 2021, we had $2.4 billion of PPP loans outstanding. We voluntarily committed to donate all of the gross processing fees received from PPP loans funded in 2020. In 2021, we fulfilled this approximately $420 million commitment.

LIBOR Transition

The London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) is a widely referenced benchmark rate that seeks to estimate the cost at which banks can borrow on an unsecured basis from other banks. On March 5, 2021, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority and ICE Benchmark Administration, the administrator of LIBOR, announced that certain settings of LIBOR would no longer be published on a representative basis after December 31, 2021, and the most commonly used U.S. dollar (USD) LIBOR settings would no longer be published on a representative basis after June 30, 2023. Central banks in various jurisdictions convened committees to identify replacement rates to facilitate the transition away from LIBOR. The committee convened by the Federal Reserve in the United States, the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (ARRC), recommended the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) as the replacement rate for USD LIBOR. Additionally, the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) have issued guidance strongly encouraging banking organizations to cease using USD LIBOR as a reference rate in new contracts.

In preparation for the cessation of the various LIBOR settings, we have undertaken a variety of activities. Among other things, we proactively implemented internal “stop-sell” dates to discontinue offering products referencing LIBOR except pursuant to limited exceptions consistent with regulatory guidance. At the same time, we expanded our suite of product offerings that are indexed to alternative reference rates.

We also continue to transition our legacy LIBOR contracts to alternative reference rates. We transitioned substantially all of our legacy contracts with LIBOR settings impacted by the December 31, 2021, cessation date to alternative reference rates, and we will continue to address contracts with LIBOR settings that are impacted by the June 30, 2023, cessation date. 

•For USD LIBOR contracts that mature before June 30, 2023, those contracts that are renewed or replaced will be indexed to alternative reference rates.

•At December 31, 2021, the notional amount of our derivatives indexed to USD LIBOR, including bilateral contracts that mature after June 30, 2023, and centrally-cleared contracts that mature either before or after June 30, 2023, was over $6 trillion. We expect substantially all of these contracts to transition to SOFR either prior to or immediately after June 30, 2023, in accordance with existing fallback provisions.

•At December 31, 2021, we had over $350 billion of USD LIBOR commercial credit facilities that mature after June 30, 2023. These contracts generally do not contain appropriate fallback provisions. We are proactively engaging with our clients and contract parties to amend these contracts to replace LIBOR with an alternative reference rate or to include appropriate fallback provisions, if necessary. 

•At December 31, 2021, we had approximately $30 billion of USD LIBOR consumer loans and lines secured by residential real estate that mature after June 30, 2023. We expect 

Wells Fargo & Company3

Overview (continued)

these contracts to transition to alternative reference rates in accordance with existing fallback provisions.

•At December 31, 2021, we had approximately $45 billion of debt securities indexed to USD LIBOR that mature after June 30, 2023. Substantially all of these debt securities contain fallback provisions and are expected to transition to an alternative reference rate immediately after June 30, 2023.

Additionally, we continue to monitor legislative developments that would provide a statutory framework to replace LIBOR with a benchmark rate based on SOFR in contracts that do not have fallback provisions or that have fallback provisions resulting in a replacement rate based on LIBOR.

For information regarding the risks and potential impact of LIBOR or any other referenced financial metric being significantly changed, replaced, or discontinued, see the “Risk Factors” section in this Report.

Capital Matters 

Effective October 1, 2021, through September 30, 2022, the Company’s stress capital buffer used to determine our minimum risk-based capital requirements under the Standardized Approach became 3.10%. Beginning January 1, 2022, our global systemically important bank (G-SIB) capital surcharge decreased by 50 basis points from 2.00% to 1.50%.

Effective January 1, 2022, we are required to use the Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR) for calculating exposure amounts for credit risk-weighted assets (RWAs) on derivative contracts. The adoption of SA-CCR resulted in an increase of less than 1.00% in total RWAs under the Standardized Approach (which was our binding approach at December 31, 2021) and a decrease of less than 0.50% in total leverage exposure at January 1, 2022.

On January 25, 2022, the Board approved an increase to the Company’s first quarter 2022 common stock dividend to $0.25 per share. For additional information about capital planning, see the “Capital Management – Capital Planning and Stress Testing” section in this Report.

Business Divestitures

On November 1, 2021, we closed our previously announced agreement to sell our Corporate Trust Services business and our previously announced agreement to sell Wells Fargo Asset Management (WFAM). We recorded net gains of $674 million and $269 million, respectively, from these sales, which are subject to certain post-closing adjustments and earn-out provisions.

Financial Performance

In 2021, we generated $21.5 billion of net income and diluted earnings per common share (EPS) of $4.95, compared with $3.4 billion of net income and EPS of $0.43 in 2020. Financial performance for 2021, compared with 2020, included the following: 

•total revenue increased due to higher net gains from equity securities, mortgage banking income, and investment advisory and other asset-based fee income, partially offset by lower net interest income;

•provision for credit losses decreased reflecting continued improvements in the economic environment, which led to lower charge-offs and better portfolio credit quality;

•noninterest expense decreased due to lower operating losses, restructuring charges, and professional and outside 

services expense, partially offset by higher incentive and revenue-related compensation in personnel expense;

•average loans decreased due to paydowns exceeding originations in our residential mortgage loan portfolio, weak demand for commercial loans, and the reclassification of student loans (included in other consumer loans) to loans held for sale (LHFS); and

•average deposits increased driven by growth in the Consumer Banking and Lending, Commercial Banking, and Wealth and Investment Management (WIM) operating segments due to higher levels of liquidity and savings for consumer and commercial customers reflecting government stimulus programs and continued economic uncertainty associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the impact of payment deferral programs on consumer customers, partially offset by actions taken to manage under the asset cap which reduced deposits in the Corporate and Investment Banking operating segment and Corporate.

In second quarter 2021, we retroactively changed the accounting for certain tax-advantaged investments. These changes had a nominal impact on net income and retained earnings on an annual basis and did not impact historical trends or business drivers. Prior period financial statement line items have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. Prior period risk-based capital and certain other regulatory related metrics were not revised. For additional information, including the financial statement line items impacted by these changes, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

Capital and Liquidity

We maintained a strong capital position in 2021, with total equity of $190.1 billion at December 31, 2021, compared with $185.7 billion at December 31, 2020. Our liquidity and regulatory capital ratios remained strong at December 31, 2021, including:

•our Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio was 11.35% under the Standardized Approach (our binding ratio), which continued to exceed both the regulatory requirement of 9.60% and our current internal target;

•our eligible external total loss absorbing capacity (TLAC) as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets was 23.03%, compared with the regulatory requirement of 21.50%; and

•our liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) was 118%, which continued to exceed the regulatory minimum of 100%.

See the “Capital Management” and the “Risk Management – Asset/Liability Management – Liquidity Risk and Funding” sections in this Report for additional information regarding our capital and liquidity, including the calculation of our regulatory capital and liquidity amounts.

Credit Quality

Credit quality reflected the improving economic environment.

•The allowance for credit losses (ACL) for loans of $13.8 billion at December 31, 2021, decreased $5.9 billion from December 31, 2020.

•Our provision for credit losses for loans was $(4.2) billion in 2021, down from $14.0 billion in 2020. The decrease in the ACL for loans and the provision for credit losses in 2021, compared with 2020, reflected continued improvements in the economic environment, which led to lower charge-offs and better portfolio credit quality.

4Wells Fargo & Company

•The allowance coverage for total loans was 1.54% at December 31, 2021, compared with 2.22% at December 31, 2020. 

•Commercial portfolio net loan charge-offs were $295 million, or 6 basis points of average commercial loans, in 2021, compared with net loan charge-offs of $1.6 billion, or 31 basis points, in 2020, due to lower losses and higher recoveries in our commercial and industrial portfolio primarily driven by the oil, gas and pipelines industry, and in the real estate mortgage portfolio.

•Consumer portfolio net loan charge-offs were $1.3 billion, or 33 basis points of average consumer loans, in 2021, compared with net loan charge-offs of $1.7 billion, or 39 basis points, in 2020, predominantly driven by lower losses in our credit card portfolio as a result of government stimulus programs instituted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, improvements in the economic environment and 

better portfolio credit quality, partially offset by $152 million of residential mortgage loan charge-offs as a result of a change in practice to fully charge-off certain delinquent legacy residential mortgage loans.

•Nonperforming assets (NPAs) of $7.3 billion at December 31, 2021, decreased $1.6 billion, or 18%, from December 31, 2020, predominantly driven by decreases in our commercial and industrial portfolio as a result of paydowns in the oil, gas, and pipelines industry, partially offset by increases in our residential mortgage – first lien portfolio from certain borrowers exiting COVID-19 related accommodation programs. NPAs represented 0.82% of total loans at December 31, 2021.

Table 1 presents a three-year summary of selected financial data and Table 2 presents selected ratios and per common

share data.

Table 1: Summary of Selected Financial Data 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM – Not meaningful

Wells Fargo & Company5

Overview (continued)

Table 2: Ratios and Per Common Share Data 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Represents Wells Fargo net income divided by average assets.

(2)Represents Wells Fargo net income applicable to common stock divided by average common stockholders’ equity.

(3)Tangible common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure and represents total equity less preferred equity, noncontrolling interests, goodwill, certain identifiable intangible assets (other than mortgage servicing rights) and goodwill and other intangibles on nonmarketable equity securities, net of applicable deferred taxes. The methodology of determining tangible common equity may differ among companies. Management believes that return on average tangible common equity, which utilizes tangible common equity, is a useful financial measure because it enables management, investors, and others to assess the Company’s use of equity. For additional information, including a corresponding reconciliation to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) financial measures, see the “Capital Management – Tangible Common Equity” section in this Report.

(4)The efficiency ratio is noninterest expense divided by total revenue (net interest income and noninterest income).

(5)See the “Capital Management” section and Note 28 (Regulatory Capital Requirements and Other Restrictions) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information.

(6)The information presented reflects fully phased-in CET1, tier 1 capital, and RWAs, but reflects total capital in accordance with transition requirements. For additional information, see the “Capital Management” section and Note 28 (Regulatory Capital Requirements and Other Restrictions) to Financial Statements in this Report.

(7)Represents TLAC divided by the greater of RWAs determined under the Standardized and Advanced Approaches, which is our binding TLAC ratio.

(8)Represents high-quality liquid assets divided by projected net cash outflows, as each is defined under the LCR rule.

(9)Dividend payout ratio is dividends declared per common share as a percentage of diluted earnings per common share.

(10)Book value per common share is common stockholders’ equity divided by common shares outstanding.

6Wells Fargo & Company

Earnings Performance

Wells Fargo net income for 2021 was $21.5 billion ($4.95 diluted EPS), compared with $3.4 billion ($0.43 diluted EPS) for 2020. Net income increased in 2021, compared with 2020, due to a $18.3 billion decrease in provision for credit losses, a $8.4 billion increase in noninterest income, and a $3.8 billion decrease in noninterest expense, partially offset by a $6.7 billion increase in income tax expense, a $4.2 billion decrease in net interest income, and a $1.4 billion increase in net income from noncontrolling interests.

For a discussion of our 2020 financial results, compared with 2019, see the “Earnings Performance” section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020.

Net Interest Income

Net interest income is the interest earned on debt securities, loans (including yield-related loan fees) and other interest-earning assets minus the interest paid on deposits, short-term borrowings and long-term debt. The net interest margin is the average yield on earning assets minus the average interest rate paid for deposits and our other sources of funding. 

Net interest income and the net interest margin in any one period can be significantly affected by a variety of factors including the mix and overall size of our earning assets portfolio and the cost of funding those assets. In addition, variable sources of interest income, such as loan fees, periodic dividends, and collection of interest on nonaccrual loans, can fluctuate from period to period.

Net interest income and net interest margin decreased in 2021, compared with 2020, due to the impact of lower interest rates, lower loan balances reflecting soft demand, elevated prepayments and refinancing activity, the sale of our student loan portfolio in the first half of 2021, unfavorable hedge ineffectiveness accounting results, and higher securities premium amortization, partially offset by lower costs and balances of interest-bearing deposits and long-term debt. Net interest income in 2021 included interest income from PPP loans of $518 million. Additionally, in 2021, we had interest income associated with loans we purchased from Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) loan securitization pools of $1.1 billion. For additional information about loans purchased from GNMA loan securitization pools, see the “Risk Management – Credit Risk Management – Mortgage Banking Activities” section in this Report.

Table 3 presents the individual components of net interest income and the net interest margin. Net interest income and net interest margin are presented on a taxable-equivalent basis in Table 3 to consistently reflect income from taxable and tax-exempt loans and debt and equity securities based on a 21% federal statutory tax rate for the periods ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019.

Wells Fargo & Company7

Earnings Performance (continued)

Table 3: Average Balances, Yields and Rates Paid (Taxable-Equivalent Basis) (1)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The average balance amounts represent amortized costs. The interest rates are based on interest income or expense amounts for the period and are annualized. Interest rates and amounts include the effects of hedge and risk management activities associated with the respective asset and liability categories.

(2)Nonaccrual loans and any related income are included in their respective loan categories.

(3)Includes taxable-equivalent adjustments of $427 million, $494 million and $624 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, predominantly related to tax-exempt income on certain loans and securities.

8Wells Fargo & Company

Table 4 allocates the changes in net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis to changes in either average balances or average rates for both interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the numerous simultaneous volume and rate changes during any period, it is not possible to precisely 

allocate such changes between volume and rate. For this table, changes that are not solely due to either volume or rate are allocated to these categories on a pro-rata basis based on the absolute value of the change due to average volume and average rate.

Table 4: Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Wells Fargo & Company9

Earnings Performance (continued)

Noninterest Income

Table 5: Noninterest Income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM – Not meaningful

Full year 2021 vs. full year 2020 

Deposit-related fees increased driven by: 

•higher consumer transaction volumes as 2020 included reduced volumes due to the economic slowdown associated with the COVID-19 pandemic;

•lower fee waivers and reversals as 2020 included elevated fee waivers due to our actions to support customers during the COVID-19 pandemic; and

•higher treasury management fees on commercial accounts driven by an increase in transaction service volumes and repricing, as well as a lower earnings credit rate due to the lower interest rate environment.

In January 2022, we announced enhancements and changes to help our consumer customers avoid overdraft-related fees. We expect this will lower certain deposit-related fees starting in 2022.

Lending-related fees increased reflecting higher loan commitment fees. 

Investment advisory and other asset-based fees increased reflecting:

• higher market valuations on WIM advisory assets;

partially offset by:

•lower asset-based fees due to the sale of WFAM on November 1, 2021.

For additional information on certain client investment assets, see the “Earnings Performance – Operating Segment Results – Wealth and Investment Management – WIM Advisory Assets” and “Earnings Performance – Operating Segment Results – Corporate – Wells Fargo Asset Management (WFAM) Assets Under Management” sections in this Report.

Commission and brokerage services fees decreased driven by lower transactional revenue.

Investment banking fees increased driven by higher debt underwriting fees, including loan syndication fees, as well as higher advisory fees and equity underwriting fees.

Card fees increased reflecting:

•higher interchange fees driven by increased purchase and transaction volumes;

partially offset by:

•higher rewards, including promotional offers on our new Active CashSM card. 

Net servicing income increased reflecting:

•negative mortgage servicing right (MSR) valuation adjustments in 2020 for higher expected servicing costs and higher prepayment estimates due to improved economic conditions in 2021; 

partially offset by:

•lower servicing fees due to a lower balance of loans serviced for others.

Net gains on mortgage loan originations/sales increased

driven by:

•higher gains in 2021 related to the resecuritization of loans we purchased from GNMA loan securitization pools in 2020; 

•losses in 2020 driven by the impact of interest rate volatility on hedging activities associated with our residential mortgage loans held for sale portfolio and pipeline, as well as valuation losses on certain residential and commercial loans held for sale due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on market conditions; and 

•a shift in production to more retail loans, which have a higher production margin compared with correspondent loans.

For additional information on servicing income and net gains on mortgage loan originations/sales, see Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) to Financial Statements in this Report.

10Wells Fargo & Company

Net gains from trading activities decreased reflecting:

•lower volumes of interest rate products;

•lower client trading activity for equity products due to market volatility in 2020; and

•lower client trading activity for credit products, reflecting greater market liquidity in 2020 from government actions taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic;

partially offset by:

•higher client trading activity for asset-backed finance products.

Net gains on debt securities decreased due to:

• lower gains on sales of agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and municipal bonds;

partially offset by:

•higher gains on sales of corporate and other debt securities.

Net gains from equity securities increased driven by:

•higher unrealized gains on nonmarketable equity securities from our affiliated venture capital and private equity businesses;

•higher realized gains on the sales of equity securities; and 

•lower impairment of equity securities due to improved market conditions in 2021.

Lease income decreased driven by a $268 million impairment of certain rail cars in our rail car leasing business used for the transportation of coal products.

Other income increased due to gains in 2021 of: 

•$674 million on the sale of our Corporate Trust Services business;

•$355 million on the sale of our student loan portfolio; and

•$269 million on the sale of WFAM;

partially offset by:

•lower gains on the sales of certain residential mortgage loans which were reclassified to held for sale; 

•higher valuation losses related to the retained litigation risk, including the timing and amount of final settlement, associated with shares of Visa Class B common stock that we previously sold. For additional information, see the “Risk Management – Asset/Liability Management – Market Risk – Equity Securities” section in this Report; and

•lower income from our investments accounted for under the equity method.

Wells Fargo & Company11

Earnings Performance (continued)

Noninterest Expense

Table 6: Noninterest Expense 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM – Not meaningful

(1)Represents expenses for assets we lease to customers.

Full Year 2021 vs. full year 2020

Personnel expense increased driven by:

•higher revenue-related compensation expense; 

•higher incentive compensation expense;

•higher market valuations on stock-based compensation; and

•higher deferred compensation expense; 

partially offset by:

•lower salaries as a result of reduced headcount.

In second quarter 2020, we entered into arrangements to transition our economic hedges of the deferred compensation plan liabilities from equity securities to derivative instruments. As a result of this transition, changes in fair value of derivatives used to economically hedge the deferred compensation plan are reported in personnel expense rather than in net gains (losses) from equity securities within noninterest income. For additional information on the derivatives used in the economic hedges, see Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Technology, telecommunications and equipment expense increased due to higher expense for technology contracts and the reversal of a software licensing liability accrual in 2020.

Occupancy expense decreased driven by:

•lower cleaning fees, supplies, and equipment expenses as 2020 included higher expenses due to the COVID-19 pandemic; and

•lower rent expense.

Operating losses decreased driven by lower expense for customer remediation accruals and litigation accruals, partially offset by a $250 million civil money penalty associated with the September 2021 OCC enforcement action.

Professional and outside services expense decreased driven by efficiency initiatives to reduce our spending on consultants and contractors.

Leases expense decreased driven by lower depreciation expense from the reduction in the size of our operating lease asset portfolio.

Restructuring charges decreased due to lower personnel costs related to our efficiency initiatives that began in third quarter 2020. For additional information on restructuring charges, see Note 22 (Restructuring Charges) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Other expenses increased driven by a write-down of goodwill in 2021 related to the sale of our student loan portfolio.

Income Tax Expense 

Income tax expense was $5.6 billion in 2021, compared with an income tax benefit of $1.2 billion in 2020, driven by higher pre-tax income. The effective income tax rate was 20.6% for 2021, compared with (52.1)% for 2020. The effective income tax rate for 2021 reflected the impact of higher pre-tax income while the effective income tax rate for 2020 reflected both the impact of income tax benefits (including tax credits) on lower pre-tax income and income tax benefits related to the resolution and reevaluation of prior period matters with U.S. federal and state tax authorities. The income tax expense (benefit) and our effective income tax rate for both years reflected the impact of changes in accounting policy for certain tax-advantaged investments adopted in second quarter 2021. For additional information on income taxes, see Note 23 (Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Operating Segment Results 

Our management reporting is organized into four reportable operating segments: Consumer Banking and Lending; Commercial Banking; Corporate and Investment Banking; and Wealth and Investment Management. All other business activities that are not included in the reportable operating segments have been included in Corporate. For additional information, see Table 7. We define our reportable operating segments by type of product and customer segment, and their results are based on our management reporting process. The management reporting process measures the performance of the reportable operating segments based on the Company’s management structure, and the results are regularly reviewed by our Chief Executive Officer and Operating Committee. The management reporting process is based on U.S. GAAP and includes specific adjustments, such as funds transfer pricing for asset/liability management, shared revenues and expenses, and taxable-equivalent adjustments to consistently reflect income 

12Wells Fargo & Company

from taxable and tax-exempt sources, which allows management to assess performance consistently across the operating segments.

In February 2021, we announced an agreement to sell WFAM, and in first quarter 2021, we moved the business from the Wealth and Investment Management operating segment to Corporate. In March 2021, we announced an agreement to sell our Corporate Trust Services business and, in second quarter 2021, we moved the business from the Commercial Banking operating segment to Corporate. Prior period balances have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. These changes did not impact the previously reported consolidated financial results of the Company. On November 1, 2021, we closed the sales of our Corporate Trust Services business and WFAM. 

In second quarter 2021, we elected to change our accounting method for low-income housing tax credit (LIHTC) investments and elected to change the presentation of investment tax credits related to solar energy investments. These accounting policy changes had a nominal impact on reportable operating segment results. Prior period financial statement line items for the Company, as well as for the reportable operating segments, have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. Our LIHTC investments are included in the Corporate and Investment Banking operating segment and our solar energy investments are included in the Commercial Banking operating segment. For additional information, see the “Overview – Recent Developments” section and Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Funds Transfer Pricing Corporate treasury manages a funds transfer pricing methodology that considers interest rate risk, liquidity risk, and other product characteristics. Operating segments pay a funding charge for their assets and receive a funding credit for their deposits, both of which are included in net interest income. The net impact of the funding charges or credits is recognized in corporate treasury.

Revenue and Expense Sharing When lines of business jointly serve customers, the line of business that is responsible for providing the product or service recognizes revenue or expense with a referral fee paid or an allocation of cost to the other line of business based on established internal revenue-sharing agreements.

When a line of business uses a service provided by another line of business or enterprise function (included in Corporate), expense is generally allocated based on the cost and use of the service provided.

Taxable-Equivalent Adjustments Taxable-equivalent adjustments related to tax-exempt income on certain loans and debt securities are included in net interest income, while taxable-equivalent adjustments related to income tax credits for low-income housing and renewable energy investments are included in noninterest income, in each case with corresponding impacts to income tax expense (benefit). Adjustments are included in Corporate, Commercial Banking, and Corporate and Investment Banking and are eliminated to reconcile to the Company’s consolidated financial results.

Allocated Capital  Reportable operating segments are allocated capital under a risk-sensitive framework that is primarily based on aspects of our regulatory capital requirements, and the assumptions and methodologies used to allocate capital are periodically assessed and revised. Management believes that return on allocated capital is a useful financial measure because it enables management, investors, and others to assess a reportable operating segment’s use of capital. 

Selected Metrics We present certain financial and nonfinancial metrics that management uses when evaluating reportable operating segment results. Management believes that these metrics are useful to investors and others to assess the performance, customer growth, and trends of reportable operating segments or lines of business.

Table 7: Management Reporting Structure

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Wells Fargo & Company13

Earnings Performance (continued)

Table 8 and the following discussion present our results by reportable operating segment. For additional information, see Note 26 (Operating Segments) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Table 8: Operating Segment Results – Highlights 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)All other business activities that are not included in the reportable operating segments have been included in Corporate. For additional information, see the “Corporate” section below.

(2)Taxable-equivalent adjustments related to tax-exempt income on certain loans and debt securities are included in net interest income, while taxable-equivalent adjustments related to income tax credits for low-income housing and renewable energy investments are included in noninterest income, in each case with corresponding impacts to income tax expense (benefit). Adjustments are included in Corporate, Commercial Banking, and Corporate and Investment Banking and are eliminated to reconcile to the Company’s consolidated financial results.

14Wells Fargo & Company

Consumer Banking and Lending offers diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses with annual sales generally up to $5 million. These financial products and services include checking and savings accounts, credit and 

debit cards, as well as home, auto, personal, and small business lending. Table 8a and Table 8b provide additional information for Consumer Banking and Lending.

Table 8a: Consumer Banking and Lending – Income Statement and Selected Metrics 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(continued on following page)

Wells Fargo & Company15

Earnings Performance (continued)

(continued from previous page)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM – Not meaningful

(1)Return on allocated capital is segment net income (loss) applicable to common stock divided by segment average allocated capital. Segment net income (loss) applicable to common stock is segment net income (loss) less allocated preferred stock dividends. 

(2)Efficiency ratio is segment noninterest expense divided by segment total revenue (net interest income and noninterest income).

(3)Digital and mobile active customers is the number of consumer and small business customers who have logged on via a digital or mobile device, respectively, in the prior 90 days. Digital active customers includes both online and mobile customers.

(4)Deposit spread is (i) the internal funds transfer pricing credit on segment deposits minus interest paid to customers for segment deposits, divided by (ii) average segment deposits.

(5)Debit card purchase volume and transactions reflect combined activity for both consumer and business debit card purchases.

(6)Excludes residential mortgage loans subserviced for others.

(7)Excludes residential mortgage loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and loans held for sale.

(8)Excludes nonaccrual loans.

(9)Beginning in second quarter 2020, customer payment deferral activities instituted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic may have delayed the recognition of delinquencies for those customers who would have otherwise moved into past due or nonaccrual status. 

(10)Excludes certain private label new account openings.

Full year 2021 vs. full year 2020 

Revenue increased driven by:

•higher mortgage banking noninterest income due to higher gains in 2021 related to the resecuritization of loans we purchased from GNMA loan securitization pools in 2020, losses in 2020 driven by the impact of interest rate volatility on hedging activities and valuation losses due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on market conditions, and a shift in production to more retail loans, which have a higher production margin compared with correspondent loans; 

•higher card fees reflecting higher interchange fees driven by increased purchase and transaction volumes, partially offset by higher rewards, including promotional offers on our new Active CashSM card; and

•higher deposit-related fees driven by higher consumer transaction volumes as 2020 included reduced volumes due to the economic slowdown associated with the COVID-19 pandemic;

partially offset by:

•lower net interest income reflecting a lower deposit spread and lower loan balances, partially offset by higher deposit balances; and

•lower other income driven by lower gains on the sales of certain residential mortgage loans which were reclassified to held for sale.

Provision for credit losses decreased driven by an improved economic environment.

Noninterest expense decreased driven by:

•lower operating losses due to lower expense for customer remediation accruals and litigation accruals; 

•lower personnel expense reflecting additional payments made in 2020 to certain customer-facing and support employees and for back-up child care services, as well as lower branch staffing expense in 2021 related to efficiency initiatives in Consumer and Small Business Banking, partially 

16Wells Fargo & Company

offset by higher revenue-related compensation in Home Lending; 

•lower advertising and promotion expense; and

•lower occupancy expense related to lower cleaning fees, supplies, and equipment expenses as 2020 included higher expenses due to the COVID-19 pandemic;

partially offset by:

•higher charitable donations expense driven by the donation of PPP processing fees; and

•higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) deposit assessment expense driven by both a higher assessment rate and a higher deposit assessment base.

Table 8b: Consumer Banking and Lending – Balance Sheet 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Full year 2021 vs. full year 2020

Total loans (average and period-end) decreased as paydowns exceeded originations. Home Lending loan balances were also impacted by actions taken in 2020 to temporarily curtail certain non-conforming residential mortgage originations and suspend home equity originations. Small Business period-end loan balances were also impacted by a decline in PPP loans.

Total deposits (average and period-end) increased driven by higher levels of liquidity and savings for consumer customers reflecting government stimulus programs and payment deferral programs, as well as continued economic uncertainty associated with the COVID-19 pandemic.

Wells Fargo & Company17

Earnings Performance (continued)

Commercial Banking provides financial solutions to private, family owned and certain public companies. Products and services include banking and credit products across multiple 

industry sectors and municipalities, secured lending and lease products, and treasury management. Table 8c and Table 8d provide additional information for Commercial Banking.

Table 8c: Commercial Banking – Income Statement and Selected Metrics 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM – Not meaningful

Full year 2021 vs. full year 2020

Revenue decreased driven by:

•lower net interest income reflecting lower loan balances driven by weak demand and the lower interest rate environment, partially offset by higher income from higher deposit balances; 

partially offset by:

•higher other noninterest income due to higher realized and unrealized gains on the sales of equity securities and higher income from renewable energy investments; and

•higher deposit-related fees due to higher treasury management fees driven by an increase in transaction volumes and repricing.

Provision for credit losses decreased driven by an improved economic environment.

Noninterest expense decreased driven by:

•lower spending related to efficiency initiatives, including lower personnel expense from reduced headcount;

•lower lease expense driven by lower depreciation expense from a reduction in the size of our operating lease asset portfolio; and

•lower professional and outside services expense reflecting decreased project-related expense.

18Wells Fargo & Company

Table 8d: Commercial Banking – Balance Sheet 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Full year 2021 vs. full year 2020

Total loans (average) decreased driven by lower loan demand, including lower line utilization, and higher paydowns reflecting continued high levels of client liquidity and strength in the capital markets, partially offset by modest loan growth in late 2021 driven by higher line utilization, as well as customer growth.

Total deposits (average and period-end) increased due to higher levels of liquidity and lower investment spending reflecting government stimulus programs and continued economic uncertainty associated with the COVID-19 pandemic.

Wells Fargo & Company19

Earnings Performance (continued)

Corporate and Investment Banking delivers a suite of capital markets, banking, and financial products and services to corporate, commercial real estate, government and institutional clients globally. Products and services include corporate banking, investment banking, treasury management, commercial real 

estate lending and servicing, equity and fixed income solutions, as well as sales, trading, and research capabilities. Table 8e and Table 8f provide additional information for Corporate and Investment Banking.

 Table 8e: Corporate and Investment Banking – Income Statement and Selected Metrics 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM – Not meaningful

Full year 2021 vs. full year 2020

Revenue decreased driven by:

•lower net gains from trading activities driven by lower volumes of interest rate products, lower client trading activity for equity products due to market volatility in 2020, and lower client trading activity for credit products reflecting greater market liquidity in 2020 from government actions taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by higher client trading activity for asset-backed finance products;

partially offset by:

•higher investment banking fees due to higher debt underwriting fees, including loan syndication fees, as well as higher advisory fees and equity underwriting fees;

•higher other noninterest income driven by higher commercial mortgage banking income due to higher servicing income and gains on the sales of mortgage loans, as well as higher income from low-income housing investments; and

•higher lending-related fees reflecting increased loan commitment fees.

20Wells Fargo & Company

Provision for credit losses decreased driven by an improved economic environment.

Noninterest expense decreased driven by:

•lower operating losses due to lower expense for litigation accruals;

•lower expenses from operations and enterprise functions; and

•lower professional and outside services expense driven by efficiency initiatives to reduce our spending on consultants and contractors; 

partially offset by:

•higher personnel expense driven by higher incentive compensation expense.

Table 8f: Corporate and Investment Banking – Balance Sheet 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Full year 2021 vs. full year 2020

Total assets (period-end) increased reflecting higher loan balances driven by customer usage of lines of credit due to increased corporate spending.

Total deposits (average and period-end) decreased reflecting continued actions to manage under the asset cap.

Wells Fargo & Company21

Earnings Performance (continued)

Wealth and Investment Management provides personalized wealth management, brokerage, financial planning, lending, private banking, trust and fiduciary products and services to affluent, high-net worth and ultra-high-net worth clients. We operate through financial advisors in our brokerage and wealth 

offices, consumer bank branches, independent offices, and digitally through WellsTrade® and Intuitive Investor®. Table 8g and Table 8h provide additional information for Wealth and Investment Management.

Table 8g: Wealth and Investment Management 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM – Not meaningful

(1)Represents annualized segment total revenue divided by average total financial and wealth advisors for the period.

Full year 2021 vs. full year 2020

Revenue increased driven by:

•higher investment advisory and other asset-based fees due to higher market valuations on WIM advisory assets; and

•higher gains on deferred compensation plan investments, which are included in other noninterest income (largely offset by personnel expense);

partially offset by:

•lower net interest income reflecting the lower interest rate environment, partially offset by higher deposit and loan balances.

Provision for credit losses decreased driven by an improved economic environment.

Noninterest expense increased due to:

•higher personnel expense driven by higher revenue-related compensation expense and higher deferred compensation expense; and

•the reversal of a software licensing liability accrual in 2020;

partially offset by:

•lower professional and outside services expense driven by efficiency initiatives to reduce our spending on consultants and contractors.

Total loans (average and period-end) increased due to higher securities-based loan balances.

Total deposits (average and period-end) increased primarily due to growth in customer balances in both The Private Bank and Wells Fargo Advisors.

22Wells Fargo & Company

WIM Advisory Assets In addition to transactional accounts, WIM offers advisory account relationships to brokerage customers. Fees from advisory accounts are based on a percentage of the market value of the assets as of the beginning of the quarter, which vary across the account types based on the distinct services provided, and are affected by investment performance as well as asset inflows and outflows. Advisory accounts include assets that are financial advisor-directed and separately managed by third-party managers, as well as certain client-directed brokerage assets where we earn a fee for advisory and other services, but do not have investment discretion.

WIM also manages personal trust and other assets for high net worth clients, with fee income earned based on a percentage of the market value of these assets. Table 8h presents advisory assets activity by WIM line of business for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. Management believes that advisory assets is a useful metric because it allows management, investors, and others to assess how changes in asset amounts may impact the generation of certain asset-based fees.

For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, the average fee rate by account type ranged from 50 to 120 basis points.

Table 8h: WIM Advisory Assets 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Inflows include new advisory account assets, contributions, dividends and interest.

(2)Outflows include closed advisory account assets, withdrawals and client management fees. 

(3)Market impact reflects gains and losses on portfolio investments.

(4)Investment advice and other services are provided to client, but decisions are made by the client and the fees earned are based on a percentage of the advisory account assets, not the number and size of transactions executed by the client.

(5)Professionally managed portfolios with fees earned based on respective strategies and as a percentage of certain client assets.

(6)Professional advisory portfolios managed by WFAM or third-party asset managers. Fees are earned based on a percentage of certain client assets.

(7)Program with portfolios constructed of load-waived, no-load and institutional share class mutual funds. Fees are earned based on a percentage of certain client assets.

(8)Discretionary and non-discretionary portfolios held in personal trusts, investment agency, or custody accounts with fees earned based on a percentage of client assets.

Wells Fargo & Company23

Earnings Performance (continued)

Corporate includes corporate treasury and enterprise functions, net of allocations (including funds transfer pricing, capital, liquidity and certain expenses), in support of the reportable operating segments, as well as our investment portfolio and affiliated venture capital and private equity businesses. In addition, Corporate includes all restructuring charges related to our efficiency initiatives. See Note 22 (Restructuring Charges) to 

Financial Statements in this Report for additional information on restructuring charges. Corporate also includes certain lines of business that management has determined are no longer consistent with the long-term strategic goals of the Company, as well as results for previously divested businesses. Table 8i,

Table 8j, and Table 8k provide additional information for Corporate.

Table 8i: Corporate – Income Statement and Selected Metrics 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM – Not meaningful

(1)Reflects results attributable to noncontrolling interests predominantly associated with the Company’s consolidated venture capital investments.

(2)Beginning in first quarter 2021, employees who were notified of displacement remained as headcount in their respective operating segment rather than included in Corporate.

Full year 2021 vs. full year 2020

Revenue increased driven by:

•higher unrealized gains on nonmarketable equity securities from our affiliated venture capital and private equity businesses, higher realized gains on the sales of equity securities, as well as lower impairment of equity securities due to improved market conditions in 2021; and

•gains on the sales of our Corporate Trust Services business, our student loan portfolio, and WFAM;

partially offset by:

•lower net interest income reflecting the lower interest rate environment, unfavorable hedge ineffectiveness accounting results, and lower loan balances; 

•lower gains on debt securities from sales of agency MBS and municipal bonds, partially offset by higher gains on sales of corporate and other debt securities; 

•lower asset-based fees due to the sale of WFAM on November 1, 2021; 

•lower lease income driven by a $268 million impairment of certain rail cars in our rail car leasing business used for the transportation of coal products; and

•higher valuation losses related to the retained litigation risk, including the timing and amount of final settlement, associated with shares of Visa Class B common stock that we previously sold.

Provision for credit losses increased due to a reduction in the allowance for credit losses in 2020 as a result of the reclassification of our student loan portfolio to loans held for sale, partially offset by an improved economic environment.

Noninterest expense decreased due to:

•lower restructuring charges; and

•lower expenses related to divested businesses;

partially offset by:

•higher incentive compensation expense, including the impact of higher market valuations on stock-based compensation;

•higher deferred compensation expense; and

•a write-down of goodwill in 2021 related to the sale of our student loan portfolio.

Corporate includes our rail car leasing business, which had long-lived operating lease assets (as a lessor) of $5.1 billion, which was net of $2.1 billion of accumulated depreciation, as of December 31, 2021. The average age of our rail cars is 22 years and the rail cars are typically leased under short-term leases of 3 to 5 years. Our three largest concentrations, which represented 55% of our rail car fleet as of December 31, 2021, were rail cars used for the transportation of agricultural grain, coal, and cement/sand products. 

In 2021, we observed that a decline in the market led to continued weakening demand for certain rail cars used for the transportation of coal products. We expect that both utilization and rental rates for these leased rail cars may remain low in future periods and, therefore, we recognized an impairment charge related to these leased rail cars of $268 million in fourth quarter 2021 as an offset to our lease income, which is included in noninterest income. We believe no other classes of rail cars were impaired as of December 31, 2021. Additional impairment may result in the future based on changing economic and market conditions affecting the long-term demand and utility of specific types of rail cars. Our assumptions for impairment are sensitive to estimated utilization and rental rates, as well as the estimated 

24Wells Fargo & Company

economic life of the leased asset. For additional information on the accounting for impairment of operating lease assets, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) and Note 5 (Leasing Activity) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

In addition, Corporate includes assets under management (AUM) and assets under administration (AUA) for Institutional 

Retirement and Trust (IRT) client assets of $19 billion and $582 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2021, which we continue to administer at the direction of the buyer pursuant to a transition services agreement. The transition services agreement terminates in June 2022.

Table 8j: Corporate – Balance Sheet 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Full year 2021 vs. full year 2020

Total assets (average) increased due to:

•an increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash managed by corporate treasury as a result of an increase in deposits from the reportable operating segments; and

•an increase in held-to-maturity debt securities related to portfolio rebalancing to manage liquidity and interest rate risk; 

partially offset by:

•a decline in available-for-sale debt securities related to portfolio rebalancing to manage liquidity and interest rate risk; and

•a decline in loans due to the sale of our student loan portfolio.

Total assets (period-end) decreased modestly reflecting the timing of cash deployment by our investment portfolio near the end of 2021, partially offset by an increase in equity securities related to our affiliated venture capital business.

Total deposits (average and period-end) decreased reflecting actions taken to manage under the asset cap.

Wells Fargo & Company25

Earnings Performance (continued)

Wells Fargo Asset Management (WFAM) Assets Under Management On November 1, 2021 we closed our previously announced agreement to sell WFAM. Prior to the sale, we earned investment advisory and other asset-based fees from managing and administering assets through WFAM, which offered Wells Fargo proprietary mutual funds and managed institutional separate accounts. Generally, we earned fees from AUM where we had discretionary management authority over the investments and generated fees as a percentage of the market 

value of the AUM. WFAM assets under management consisted of equity, alternative, balanced, fixed income, money market, and stable value, and included client assets that were managed or sub-advised on behalf of other Wells Fargo lines of business. Table 8k presents WFAM AUM activity for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. Management believes that AUM is a useful metric because it allows management, investors, and others to assess how changes in asset amounts may impact the generation of certain asset-based fees.

Table 8k: WFAM Assets Under Management 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Inflows include new managed account assets, contributions, dividends and interest.

(2)Outflows include closed managed account assets, withdrawals and client management fees.

(3)Market impact reflects gains and losses on portfolio investments.

(4)Money Market funds activity is presented on a net inflow or net outflow basis, because the gross flows are not meaningful nor used by management as an indicator of performance.

26Wells Fargo & Company

Balance Sheet Analysis

At December 31, 2021, our assets totaled $1.95 trillion, down $4.8 billion from December 31, 2020. 

The following discussion provides additional information about the major components of our consolidated balance sheet. See the “Capital Management” section in this Report for information on changes in our equity.

Available-for-Sale and Held-to-Maturity Debt Securities

Table 9: Available-for-Sale and Held-to-Maturity Debt Securities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Represents amortized cost of the securities, net of the allowance for credit losses of $8 million and $28 million related to available-for-sale debt securities and $96 million and $41 million related to held-to-maturity debt securities at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

(2)Available-for-sale debt securities are carried on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value.

(3)Held-to-maturity debt securities are carried on the consolidated balance sheet at amortized cost, net of the allowance for credit losses.

Table 9 presents a summary of our portfolio of investments in available-for-sale (AFS) and held-to-maturity (HTM) debt securities. The size and composition of our AFS and HTM debt securities is dependent upon the Company’s liquidity and interest rate risk management objectives. The AFS debt securities portfolio can be used to meet funding needs that arise in the normal course of business or due to market stress. Changes in our interest rate risk profile may occur due to changes in overall economic or market conditions, which could influence loan origination demand, prepayment rates, or deposit balances and mix. In response, the AFS debt securities portfolio can be rebalanced to meet the Company’s interest rate risk management objectives. In addition to meeting liquidity and interest rate risk management objectives, the AFS and HTM debt securities portfolios may provide yield enhancement over other short-term assets. See the “Risk Management – Asset/Liability Management” section in this Report for additional information on liquidity and interest rate risk. 

The AFS debt securities portfolio predominantly consists of liquid, high-quality U.S. Treasury and federal agency debt, and agency MBS. The portfolio also includes securities issued by U.S. states and political subdivisions and highly rated collateralized loan obligations (CLOs). 

The HTM debt securities portfolio predominantly consists of liquid, high-quality U.S. Treasury and federal agency debt, and agency MBS. The portfolio also includes securities issued by U.S. states and political subdivisions and highly rated CLOs. Our intent is to hold these securities to maturity and collect the contractual cash flows. Debt securities are classified as HTM through purchases or through transfers from the AFS debt securities portfolio.

The amortized cost, net of the allowance for credit losses, of AFS and HTM debt securities increased from December 31, 2020. We continued to purchase AFS and HTM debt securities, including HTM debt securities through securitizations of LHFS, which more than offset portfolio runoff and AFS debt security sales. In addition, we transferred $56.0 billion of AFS debt securities to HTM debt securities in 2021 due to actions taken to reposition the overall portfolio for capital management purposes.

The total net unrealized gains on AFS and HTM debt securities decreased from December 31, 2020, driven by higher interest rates. 

At December 31, 2021, 98% of the combined AFS and HTM debt securities portfolio was rated AA- or above. Ratings are based on external ratings where available and, where not available, based on internal credit grades. See Note 3 (Available-for-Sale and Held-to-Maturity Debt Securities) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information on AFS and HTM debt securities, including a summary of debt securities by security type. 

Wells Fargo & Company27

Balance Sheet Analysis (continued)

Loan Portfolios

Table 10 provides a summary of total outstanding loans by portfolio segment. Commercial loans increased from December 31, 2020, predominantly due to an increase in the commercial and industrial loan portfolio, driven by higher loan demand resulting in increased originations and loan draws, partially offset by paydowns and PPP loan forgiveness. Consumer 

loans decreased from December 31, 2020, predominantly driven by a decrease in the residential mortgage – first lien portfolio due to loan paydowns reflecting the low interest rate environment and the transfer of $17.8 billion of first lien mortgage loans to loans held for sale (LHFS) substantially all of which related to the sales of loans purchased from GNMA loan securitization pools in prior periods, partially offset by originations of $72.6 billion.

Table 10: Loan Portfolios

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Average loan balances and a comparative detail of average loan balances is included in Table 3 under “Earnings Performance – Net Interest Income” earlier in this Report. Additional information on total loans outstanding by portfolio segment and class of financing receivable is included in the “Risk Management – Credit Risk Management” section in this Report. Period-end balances and other loan related information are in Note 4 (Loans 

and Related Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Table 11 shows contractual maturities by class of loan and the distribution by changes in interest rates for loans with a contractual maturity greater than one year. Nonaccrual loans and loans with indeterminate maturities have been classified as maturing within one year.

Table 11: Loan Maturities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

28Wells Fargo & Company

Deposits

Deposits increased from December 31, 2020, reflecting:

•higher levels of liquidity and savings for consumer customers reflecting government stimulus programs and payment deferral programs, as well as continued economic uncertainty associated with the COVID-19 pandemic;

partially offset by:

•actions taken to manage under the asset cap resulting in declines in time deposits, such as brokered certificates of 

deposit (CDs), and interest-bearing deposits in non-U.S. offices.

Table 12 provides additional information regarding deposits. Information regarding the impact of deposits on net interest income and a comparison of average deposit balances is provided in the “Earnings Performance – Net Interest Income” section and Table 3 earlier in this Report.

Table 12: Deposits 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, total deposits that exceed FDIC insurance limits, or are otherwise uninsured, were estimated to be $590 billion and $560 billion, respectively. Estimated uninsured domestic deposits reflect amounts disclosed in the U.S. regulatory reports of our subsidiary banks, with adjustments for amounts related to consolidated 

subsidiaries. All non-U.S. deposits are treated for these purposes as uninsured. 

Table 13 presents the contractual maturities of estimated time deposits that exceed FDIC insurance limits, or are otherwise uninsured. All non-U.S. time deposits are uninsured.

Table 13: Uninsured Time Deposits by Maturity 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Wells Fargo & Company29

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In the ordinary course of business, we engage in financial transactions that are not recorded on the consolidated balance sheet, or may be recorded on the consolidated balance sheet in amounts that are different from the full contract or notional amount of the transaction. Our off-balance sheet arrangements include commitments to lend and purchase debt and equity securities, transactions with unconsolidated entities, guarantees, derivatives, and other commitments. These transactions are designed to (1) meet the financial needs of customers, (2) manage our credit, market or liquidity risks, and/or (3) diversify our funding sources.

Commitments to Lend

We enter into commitments to lend to customers, which are usually at a stated interest rate, if funded, and for specific purposes and time periods. When we enter into commitments, we are exposed to credit risk. The maximum credit risk for these commitments will generally be lower than the contractual amount because a significant portion of these commitments are not funded. For additional information, see Note 4 (Loans and Related Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

Transactions with Unconsolidated Entities

In the normal course of business, we enter into various types of on- and off-balance sheet transactions with special purpose entities (SPEs), which are corporations, trusts, limited liability companies or partnerships that are established for a limited purpose. Generally, SPEs are formed in connection with securitization transactions and are considered variable interest entities (VIEs). For additional information, see Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Guarantees and Other Arrangements

Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make payments to a guaranteed party based on an event or a change in an underlying asset, liability, rate or index. Guarantees are generally in the form of standby and direct pay letters of credit, written options, recourse obligations, exchange and clearing house guarantees, indemnifications, and other types of similar arrangements. For additional information, see Note 13 (Guarantees and Other Commitments) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Commitments to Purchase Debt and Equity Securities

We enter into commitments to purchase securities under resale agreements. We also may enter into commitments to purchase debt and equity securities to provide capital for customers’ funding, liquidity or other future needs. For additional information, see Note 13 (Guarantees and Other Commitments) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Derivatives

We use derivatives to manage exposure to market risk, including interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk, and to assist customers with their risk management objectives. Derivatives are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value, and volume can be measured in terms of the notional amount, which is generally not exchanged, but is used only as the basis on which interest and other payments are determined. The notional amount is not recorded on the consolidated balance sheet and is not, when viewed in isolation, a meaningful measure of the risk profile of the instruments. For additional information, see Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report.

30Wells Fargo & Company

Risk Management 

Wells Fargo manages a variety of risks that can significantly affect our financial performance and our ability to meet the expectations of our customers, shareholders, regulators and other stakeholders.

Risk is Part of our Business Model. Risk is the possibility of an event occurring that could adversely affect the Company’s ability to achieve its strategic or business objectives. The Company routinely takes risks to achieve its business goals and to serve its customers. These risks include financial risks, such as interest rate, credit, liquidity, and market risks, and non-financial risks, such as operational risk, which includes compliance and model risks, and strategic and reputation risks. 

Risk Profile. The Company’s risk profile is an assessment of the aggregate risks associated with the Company’s exposures and business activities after taking into consideration risk management effectiveness. The Company monitors its risk profile, and the Board reviews risk profile reports and analysis.

Risk Capacity. Risk capacity is the maximum level of risk that the Company could assume given its current level of resources before triggering regulatory and other constraints on its capital and liquidity needs.

Risk Appetite. Risk appetite is the amount of risk, within its risk capacity, the Company is comfortable taking given its current level of resources. Risk appetite is articulated in our Statement of Risk Appetite, which establishes acceptable risks and at what level and includes risk appetite principles. The Company’s Statement of Risk Appetite is defined by senior management, approved at least annually by the Board, and helps guide the Company’s business and risk leaders. The Company continuously monitors its risk appetite, and the Board reviews reports which include risk appetite information and analysis. 

Risk and Strategy. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) drives the Company’s strategic planning process, which identifies the Company’s most significant opportunities and challenges, develops options to address them, and evaluates the risks and trade-offs of each. The Company’s risk profile, risk capacity, risk appetite, and risk management effectiveness are considered in the strategic planning process, which is closely linked with the Company’s capital planning process. The Company’s Independent Risk Management (IRM) organization participates in strategic planning, providing challenge to and independent assessment of the risks associated with strategic initiatives. IRM also independently assesses and challenges the impact of the strategic plan on risk capacity, risk appetite, and risk management effectiveness at the principal lines of business, enterprise functions, and aggregate Company level. After review, the strategic plan is presented to the Board each year with IRM’s evaluation.

Risk and Climate Change. The Company is committed to helping mitigate the impacts of climate change related to its activities and to partner with key stakeholders, including communities and customers, to do the same. The Company expects that climate change will increasingly impact the risk types it manages, and the Company will continue to integrate climate considerations into its risk management framework as its understanding of climate change and risks driven by it evolve. 

Risk is Managed by Everyone. Every employee, in the course of their daily activities, creates risk and is responsible for managing risk. Every employee has a role to play in risk management, including establishing and maintaining the Company’s control environment. Every employee must comply with applicable laws, regulations, and Company policies. 

Risk and Culture. Senior management sets the tone at the top by supporting a strong culture, defined by the Company’s expectations, that guides how employees conduct themselves and make decisions. The Board holds senior management accountable for establishing and maintaining this culture and for effectively managing risk. Senior management expects employees to speak up when they see something that could cause harm to the Company’s customers, communities, employees, shareholders, or reputation. Because risk management is everyone’s responsibility, all employees are empowered to and expected to challenge risk decisions when appropriate and to escalate their concerns when they have not been addressed. The Company’s performance management and incentive compensation programs are designed to establish a balanced framework for risk and reward under core principles that employees are expected to know and practice. The Board, through its Human Resources Committee, plays an important role in overseeing and providing credible challenge to the Company’s performance management and incentive compensation programs. Effective risk management is a central component of employee performance evaluations.

Risk Management Framework. The Company’s risk management framework sets forth the Company’s core principles for managing and governing its risk. It is approved by the Board’s Risk Committee and reviewed and updated annually. Many other documents and policies flow from its core principles.

Wells Fargo’s top priority is to strengthen our company by building an appropriate risk and control infrastructure. We continue to enhance our risk management programs, including our operational and compliance risk management as required by the FRB’s February 2, 2018, and the CFPB/OCC’s April 20, 2018, consent orders.

Risk Governance

Role of the Board. The Board oversees the Company’s business, including its risk management. It assesses senior management’s performance and holds senior management accountable for maintaining and adhering to an effective risk management program. 

Board Committee Structure. The Board carries out its risk oversight responsibilities directly and through its committees. The Risk Committee reviews and approves the Company’s risk management framework and oversees management’s implementation of the framework, including how the Company manages and governs risk. The Risk Committee also oversees the Company’s adherence to its risk appetite. In addition, the Risk Committee supports the stature, authority and independence of IRM and oversees and receives reports on its operation. The Chief Risk Officer (CRO) reports functionally to the Risk Committee and administratively to the CEO. 

Wells Fargo & Company31

Risk Management (continued)

Management Committee Structure. The Company has established management committees, including those focused on risk, that support management in carrying out its governance and risk management responsibilities. One type of management committee is a governance committee, which is a decision-making body that operates for a particular purpose and may report to a Board committee.

Each management governance committee, in accordance with its charter, is expected to discuss, document, and make decisions regarding high priority and significant risks, emerging 

risks, risk acceptances, and risks and issues escalated to it; review and monitor progress related to critical and high-risk issues and remediation efforts, including lessons learned; and report key challenges, decisions, escalations, other actions, and open issues as appropriate.

Table 14 presents, as of December 31, 2021, the structure of the Company’s Board committees and management governance committees reporting to a Board committee, including relevant reporting and escalation paths.

Table 14: Board and Management-level Governance Committee Structure 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The Audit Committee additionally oversees the internal audit function; external auditor independence, activities, and performance; and the disclosure framework for financial, regulatory and risk reports prepared for the Board, management, and bank regulatory agencies; and assists the Board in its oversight of the Company’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.

Management Governance Committees Reporting to the Risk Committee of the Board. The Enterprise Risk & Control Committee (ERCC) is a decision-making and escalation body that governs the management of all risk types. The ERCC receives information about risk and control issues, addresses escalated risks and issues, and actively oversees risk controls. The ERCC also makes decisions related to significant risks and changes to the Company’s risk appetite. The Risk Committee receives regular updates from the ERCC chairs and senior management regarding current and emerging risks and senior management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s risk management program. 

The ERCC is co-chaired by the CEO and CRO, and its membership is comprised of principal line of business and certain enterprise function heads. The Chief Auditor or a designee attends all meetings of the ERCC. The ERCC has a direct escalation path to the Risk Committee. The ERCC also escalates certain human capital risks and issues to the Human Resources Committee. In addition, the CRO may escalate anything directly to the Board. Risks and issues are escalated to the ERCC in accordance with the Company’s escalation management policy. 

Each principal line of business and enterprise function has a risk and control committee, which is a management governance committee with a mandate that aligns with the ERCC but with its scope limited to the respective principal line of business or enterprise function. These committees focus on and consider 

risks that the respective principal line of business or enterprise function generate and manage, and the controls the principal line of business or enterprise function are expected to have in place.

As a complement to these risk and control committees, management governance committees dedicated to specific risk types and risk topics also report to the ERCC to enable more comprehensive governance of risks.

Risk Operating Model – Roles and Responsibilities

The Company has three lines of defense for managing risk: the Front Line, Independent Risk Management, and Internal Audit. 

•Front Line  The Front Line, which comprises principal line of business and certain enterprise function activities, is the first line of defense. The Front Line is responsible for understanding the risks generated by its activities, applying adequate controls, and managing risk in the course of its business activities. The Front Line identifies, measures and assesses, controls, monitors, and reports on risk generated by or associated with its business activities and balances risk and reward in decision making while operating within the Company’s risk appetite.

•Independent Risk Management  IRM is the second line of defense. It establishes and maintains the Company’s risk management program and provides oversight, including challenge to and independent assessment of, the Front Line’s execution of its risk management responsibilities.

32Wells Fargo & Company

•Internal Audit Internal Audit is the third line of defense. It is responsible for acting as an independent assurance function and validates that the risk management program is adequately designed and functioning effectively.

Risk Type Classifications

The Company uses common classifications, hierarchies, and ratings to enable consistency across risk management programs and aggregation of information. Risk type classifications permit the Company to identify and prioritize its risk exposures, including emerging risk exposures.

Operational Risk Management

Operational risk, which in addition to those discussed in this section, includes compliance risk and model risk, is the risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events. 

The Board’s Risk Committee has primary oversight responsibility for all aspects of operational risk, including significant supporting programs and/or policies regarding the Company’s business resiliency and disaster recovery, data management, information security, technology, and third-party risk management. As part of its oversight responsibilities, the Board’s Risk Committee reviews and approves significant operational risk policies and oversees the Company’s operational risk management program.

At the management level, Operational Risk Management, which is part of IRM, has oversight responsibility for operational risk. Operational Risk Management reports to the CRO and provides periodic reports related to operational risk to the Board’s Risk Committee. Operational Risk Management’s oversight responsibilities include change management risk, human capital risk, technology risk, third-party risk, information management risk, information security risk, data management risk, and fraud risk.

Information security is a significant operational risk for financial institutions such as Wells Fargo and includes the risk arising from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of information or information systems. The Board is actively engaged in the oversight of the Company’s information security risk management and cyber defense programs. The Board’s Risk Committee has primary oversight responsibility for information security risk and approves the Company’s information security program, which includes the information security policy and the cyber defense program. A Technology Subcommittee of the Risk Committee assists the Risk Committee in providing oversight of technology, information security, and cybersecurity risks as well as data management risk. The Technology Subcommittee reviews and recommends to the Risk Committee for approval any significant programs and/or policies supporting information security risk (including cybersecurity risk), technology risk, and data management risk. 

Wells Fargo and other financial institutions, as well as their third- party service providers, continue to be the target of various evolving and adaptive cyber attacks, including malware, ransomware, other malicious software intended to exploit hardware or software vulnerabilities, phishing, credential validation, and distributed denial-of-service, in an effort to disrupt the operations of financial institutions, test their cybersecurity capabilities, commit fraud, or obtain confidential, proprietary or other information. Cyber attacks have also focused on targeting online applications and services, such as online banking, as well as cloud-based and other products and services provided by third parties, and have targeted the 

infrastructure of the internet causing the widespread unavailability of websites and degrading website performance. As a result, information security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and systems designed to protect our networks, computers, software and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for Wells Fargo. Wells Fargo is also proactively involved in industry cybersecurity efforts and working with other parties, including our third-party service providers and governmental agencies, to continue to enhance defenses and improve resiliency to cybersecurity and other information security threats. See the “Risk Factors” section in this Report for additional information regarding the risks associated with a failure or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, including as a result of cyber attacks.

Compliance Risk Management

Compliance risk (a type of operational risk) is the risk resulting from the failure to comply with laws (legislation, regulations and rules) and regulatory guidance, and the failure to appropriately address associated impact, including to customers. Compliance risk encompasses violations of applicable internal policies, program requirements, procedures, and standards related to ethical principles applicable to the banking industry. 

The Board’s Risk Committee has primary oversight responsibility for all aspects of compliance risk, including financial crimes risk. As part of its oversight responsibilities, the Board’s Risk Committee reviews and approves significant supporting compliance risk and financial crimes risk policies and programs and oversees the Company’s compliance risk management and financial crimes risk management programs. 

Conduct risk, a sub-category of compliance risk, is the risk of inappropriate, unethical, or unlawful behavior on the part of employees or individuals acting on behalf of the Company, caused by deliberate or unintentional actions or business practices. In connection with its oversight of conduct risk, the Board oversees the alignment of employee conduct to the Company’s risk appetite (which the Board approves annually). The Board’s Risk Committee has primary oversight responsibility for conduct risk and risk management components of the Company’s culture, while the responsibilities of the Board’s Human Resources Committee include oversight of the Company’s culture, Code of Ethics and Business Conduct,

human capital management (including talent management and succession planning), performance management program, and incentive compensation risk management program.

At the management level, the Compliance function, which is part of IRM, monitors the implementation of the Company’s compliance and conduct risk programs. Financial Crimes Risk Management, which is part of the Compliance function, oversees and monitors financial crimes risk. The Compliance function reports to the CRO and provides periodic reports related to compliance risk to the Board’s Risk Committee.

Model Risk Management

Model risk (a type of operational risk) is the risk arising from the potential for adverse consequences from decisions made based on model output that may be incorrect or used inappropriately. 

The Board’s Risk Committee has primary oversight responsibility for model risk. As part of its oversight responsibilities, the Board’s Risk Committee oversees the Company’s model risk management policy, model governance, model performance, model issue remediation status, and adherence to model risk appetite metrics.

Wells Fargo & Company33

Risk Management (continued)

At the management level, the Model Risk function, which is part of IRM, has oversight responsibility for model risk and is responsible for governance, validation and monitoring of model risk across the Company. The Model Risk function reports to the CRO and provides periodic reports related to model risk to the Board’s Risk Committee.

Strategic Risk Management

Strategic risk is the risk to earnings, capital, or liquidity arising from adverse business decisions, improper implementation of strategic initiatives, or inadequate responses to changes in the external operating environment.

The Board has primary oversight responsibility for strategic planning and oversees management’s development and implementation of and approves the Company’s strategic plan, and considers whether it is aligned with the Company’s risk appetite and risk management effectiveness. Management develops, executes and recommends significant strategic corporate transactions and the Board evaluates management’s proposals, including their impact on the Company’s risk profile and financial position. The Board’s Risk Committee has primary oversight responsibility for the Company’s strategic risk and the adequacy of the Company’s strategic risk management program, including associated risk management practices, processes and controls. The Board’s Risk Committee also receives updates from management regarding new business initiatives activity and risks related to new or changing products, as appropriate.

At the management level, the Strategic Risk Oversight function, which is part of IRM, has oversight responsibility for strategic risk. The Strategic Risk Oversight function reports into the CRO and supports periodic reports related to strategic risk provided to the Board’s Risk Committee. 

Reputation Risk Management

Reputation risk is the risk arising from the potential that negative stakeholder opinion or negative publicity regarding the Company’s business practices, whether true or not, will adversely impact current or projected financial conditions and resilience, cause a decline in the customer base, or result in costly litigation. Stakeholders include employees, customers, communities, shareholders, regulators, elected officials, advocacy groups, and media organizations.

The Board’s Risk Committee has primary oversight responsibility for reputation risk, while each Board committee has reputation risk oversight responsibilities related to their primary oversight responsibilities. As part of its oversight responsibilities, the Board’s Risk Committee receives reports from management that help it monitor how effectively the Company is managing reputation risk. As part of its oversight responsibilities for social and public responsibility matters, the Board’s Corporate Responsibility Committee receives reports from management relating to stakeholder perceptions of the Company.

At the management level, the Reputation Risk Oversight function, which is part of IRM, has oversight responsibility for reputation risk. The Reputation Risk Oversight function reports into the CRO and supports periodic reports related to reputation risk provided to the Board’s Risk Committee.

Credit Risk Management

We define credit risk as the risk of loss associated with a borrower or counterparty default (failure to meet obligations in accordance with agreed upon terms). Credit risk exists with many 

of the Company’s assets and exposures such as loans, debt securities, and certain derivatives. 

The Board’s Risk Committee has primary oversight responsibility for credit risk. A Credit Subcommittee of the Risk Committee assists the Risk Committee in providing oversight of credit risk. At the management level, Credit Risk, which is part of IRM, has oversight responsibility for credit risk. Credit Risk reports to the CRO and supports periodic reports related to credit risk provided to the Board’s Risk Committee or its Credit Subcommittee.

Loan Portfolio Our loan portfolios represent the largest component of assets on our consolidated balance sheet for which we have credit risk. Table 15 presents our total loans outstanding by portfolio segment and class of financing receivable.

Table 15: Total Loans Outstanding by Portfolio Segment and Class of Financing Receivable 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We manage our credit risk by establishing what we believe are sound credit policies for underwriting new business, while monitoring and reviewing the performance of our existing loan portfolios. We employ various credit risk management and monitoring activities to mitigate risks associated with multiple risk factors affecting loans we hold including: 

•Loan concentrations and related credit quality;

•Counterparty credit risk;

•Economic and market conditions;

•Legislative or regulatory mandates;

•Changes in interest rates;

•Merger and acquisition activities; and

•Reputation risk.

In addition, the Company will continue to integrate climate considerations into its credit risk management activities.

Our credit risk management oversight process is governed centrally, but provides for direct management and accountability by our lines of business. Our overall credit process includes comprehensive credit policies, disciplined credit underwriting, frequent and detailed risk measurement and modeling, extensive credit training programs, and a continual loan review and audit process.

A key to our credit risk management is adherence to a well-controlled underwriting process, which we believe is appropriate for the needs of our customers as well as investors who purchase the loans or securities collateralized by the loans.

34Wells Fargo & Company

Credit Quality Overview  Credit quality in 2021 reflected continued improvement in the economic environment. In particular:

•Nonaccrual loans were $7.2 billion at December 31, 2021, down from $8.7 billion at December 31, 2020. Commercial nonaccrual loans decreased to $2.4 billion at December 31, 2021, compared with $4.8 billion at December 31, 2020, and consumer nonaccrual loans increased to $4.8 billion at December 31, 2021, compared with $3.9 billion at December 31, 2020. Nonaccrual loans represented 0.81% of total loans at December 31, 2021, compared with 0.98% at December 31, 2020.

•Net loan charge-offs as a percentage of our average commercial and consumer loan portfolios were 0.06% and 0.33%, respectively, in 2021, compared with 0.31% and 0.39%, respectively, in 2020.

•Loans that are not government insured/guaranteed and 90 days or more past due and still accruing were $235 million and $424 million in our commercial and consumer portfolios, respectively, at December 31, 2021, compared with $78 million and $612 million at December 31, 2020.

•Our provision for credit losses for loans was $(4.2) billion in 2021, compared with $14.0 billion in 2020. 

•The ACL for loans decreased to $13.8 billion, or 1.54% of total loans, at December 31, 2021, compared with $19.7 billion, or 2.22%, at December 31, 2020.

Additional information on our loan portfolios and our credit quality trends follows.

COVID-Related Lending Accommodations During 2021, we provided customers with residential mortgage loan payment deferrals of up to 18 months in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. At December 31, 2021, approximately $1.1 billion of unpaid principal balance related to residential mortgage loans, excluding those insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), remained in a deferral period.

Based on guidance in the CARES Act and the Interagency Statement on Loan Modifications and Reporting for Financial Institutions Working with Customers Affected by the Coronavirus (Revised) issued by federal banking regulators in April 2020 (the Interagency Statement), both of which we elected to apply, loan modifications related to COVID-19 and that meet certain other criteria are exempt from troubled debt restructuring (TDR) classification. The TDR relief provided by the CARES Act guidance is no longer available after January 1, 2022; however, certain COVID-related lending accommodations may continue to be eligible for TDR relief under the Interagency Statement. At December 31, 2021, the majority of residential mortgage loans that were in a deferral period, excluding those that were government insured/guaranteed, met the criteria for TDR relief and were therefore not classified as TDRs. 

 Customers who were current prior to entering the deferral period and confirmed their ability to return to their contractual loan payments upon exiting the deferral period will remain on accrual status. Customers who are unable to resume making their contractual loan payments upon exiting the deferral period are generally placed on nonaccrual status until they perform for a period of time. Such customers may require further assistance after exiting from these deferral programs and may receive or be eligible to receive modifications, or may be charged-off in accordance with our policies. For additional information about our COVID-related modifications, see Note 1 (Summary of 

Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report.