ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

MARKET RISK

We have in place an enterprise risk management process that involves systematic risk identification and mitigation covering the categories of enterprise, strategic, financial, operational and compliance and reporting risks. The enterprise risk management process receives Board of Directors and management oversight, drives risk mitigation decision-making and is fully integrated into our internal audit planning and execution cycle.

We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, domestic and foreign interest rates, and commodity prices, which can affect our operating results and overall financial condition. We manage exposure to these risks through our operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivatives. Derivatives are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for speculation or for trading purposes. Derivatives are generally contracted with a diversified group of investment grade counterparties to reduce exposure to nonperformance on such instruments.

We use foreign currency forward contracts, currency options, currency swaps and cross-currency swaps to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted cross-border payments and receipts related to ongoing business and operational financing activities. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, our most significant foreign currency exposures related to the Brazilian Real, Canadian Dollar and British Pound. We also use forward or option contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency 

51

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (CONTINUED)

translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. These foreign currency contracts are sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At December 31, 2021, a 10% favorable or unfavorable exchange rate movement in each currency in our portfolio of foreign currency contracts would have resulted in an incremental unrealized gain of approximately $357 million or loss of approximately $365 million, respectively. Consistent with the use of these contracts to mitigate the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, such unrealized losses or gains would be offset by corresponding gains or losses, respectively, in the re-measurement of the underlying exposures. 

We enter into interest rate swap and cross-currency swap agreements to manage our exposure to interest rate risk from probable long-term debt issuances or cross-currency debt. At December 31, 2021, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would have resulted in an incremental unrealized gain of approximately $53 million or unrealized loss of approximately $74 million, respectively, related to these contracts. 

We enter into commodity swap contracts to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted commodities purchases, the prices of which are not fixed directly through supply contracts. At December 31, 2021, a 10% favorable or unfavorable shift in commodity prices would have resulted in an incremental gain or loss of approximately $26 million, respectively, related to these contracts. 

There is no material change to market risk exposure other than foreign exchange, which is attributable to a change in the size of the derivative portfolio year over year. For additional information, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

52

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA