EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

ANTHEM RESPONDS TO U.S. DISTRICT COURT’S DECISION ON ACQUISITION OF CIGNA  

INDIANAPOLIS – February 9, 2017 - Anthem, Inc. (NYSE: ANTM) today commented on the decision by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia granting the Department of Justice’s request to block Anthem’s proposed acquisition of Cigna Corporation (NYSE: CI). The company promptly intends to file a notice of appeal and request an expedited hearing of its appeal to reverse the Court’s decision so that Anthem may move forward with the merger, which was approved by over 99% of the votes cast by the shareholders of both companies.  

“Anthem is significantly disappointed by the decision as combining Anthem and Cigna would positively impact the health and well-being of millions of Americans - saving them more than $2 billion in medical costs annually,” said Joseph R. Swedish, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Anthem. “Anthem has been a leader in providing individuals with access to high quality, affordable healthcare. Our decision to acquire Cigna is grounded in our commitment to this goal and to leading our industry during this period of dynamic change. If not overturned, the consequences of the decision are far-reaching and will hurt American consumers by limiting their access to high quality affordable care, slowing the industry’s shift to value based care and improved outcomes for patients, and restricting innovation which is critical to meeting the evolving needs of healthcare consumers. Moving forward, Anthem will continue to work aggressively to complete the transaction while remaining focused on serving as America’s valued health partner, delivering superior health care services to our approximately 40 million members with greater value at less cost.”  

About Anthem, Inc.  

Anthem is working to transform health care with trusted and caring solutions. Our health plan companies deliver quality products and services that give their members access to the care they need. With over 73 million people served by its affiliated companies, including approximately 40 million within its family of health plans, Anthem is one of the nation’s leading health benefits companies. For more information about Anthem’s family of companies, please visit www.antheminc.com/companies.  

IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS  

NO OFFER OR SOLICITATION  

This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and otherwise in accordance with applicable law.  

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND WHERE TO FIND IT  

In connection with the proposed transaction between Anthem, Inc. (“Anthem”) and Cigna Corporation (“Cigna”), Anthem has filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) a registration statement on Form S-4, including Amendment No. 1 thereto, containing a joint proxy statement of Anthem and Cigna that also constitutes a prospectus of Anthem. The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on October 26, 2015. This communication is not a substitute for the registration statement, definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus or any other document that Anthem and/or Cigna have filed or may file with the SEC in connection with the proposed transaction.  

INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF ANTHEM AND CIGNA ARE URGED TO READ THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY AS THEY CONTAIN OR WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the registration statement containing the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by Anthem or Cigna through the web site maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Anthem are available free of charge on Anthem’s internet website at http://www.antheminc.com or by contacting Anthem’s Investor Relations Department at (317) 488-6390. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Cigna are available free of charge on Cigna’s internet website at http://www.cigna.com or by contacting Cigna’s Investor Relations Department at (215) 761-4198.  

Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995  

This document, and oral statements made with respect to information contained in this communication, contain certain forward-looking information about Anthem, Inc. (“Anthem”), Cigna Corporation (“Cigna”) and the combined businesses of Anthem and Cigna that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for “forward-looking statements” provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not generally historical facts. Words such as “expect(s),” “feel(s),” “believe(s),” “will,” “may,” “anticipate(s),” “intend,” “estimate,” “project” and similar expressions (including the negative thereof) are intended to identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. Such statements are subject to certain known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond Anthem’s and Cigna’s control, that could cause actual results and other future events to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include those discussed and identified in Anthem’s and Cigna’s public filings with the SEC. Important factors that could cause actual results and other future events to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made in this communication are set forth in other reports or documents that Anthem and/or Cigna may file from time to time with the SEC, and include, but are not limited to: (i) the ultimate outcome of the proposed transaction, including the ability to achieve the synergies and value creation contemplated by the proposed transaction, (ii) the ultimate outcome and results of integrating the operations of Anthem and Cigna, (iii) disruption from the merger making it more difficult to maintain businesses and operational relationships, (iv) the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred in connection with the proposed transaction, (v) the timing to consummate the proposed transaction and (vi) the possibility that the proposed transaction does not close, including, but not limited to, due to the failure to satisfy the closing conditions, including the receipt of all required regulatory approvals. All forward-looking statements attributable to Anthem, Cigna or any person acting on behalf of Anthem and/or Cigna are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities law, neither Anthem nor Cigna undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or the receipt of new information. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in Anthem’s and Cigna’s SEC reports.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]