EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

Broadcom Limited Announces First Quarter  

Fiscal Year 2017 Financial Results and Interim Dividend  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •   Quarterly GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.57; Quarterly non-GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $3.63  

   •   Quarterly interim dividend of $1.02 per share  

SAN JOSE, Calif., and SINGAPORE – March 1, 2017 – Broadcom Limited (Nasdaq: AVGO), a leading semiconductor device supplier to the wired, wireless, enterprise storage, and industrial end markets, today reported financial results for its first quarter of fiscal year 2017, ended January 29, 2017, provided guidance for the second quarter of its fiscal year 2017 and announced a quarterly interim dividend.  

Basis of Presentation  

Broadcom Limited is the successor to Avago Technologies Limited (“Avago”). Following Avago’s acquisition of Broadcom Corporation (“BRCM”) on February 1, 2016 (the “Acquisition”), Broadcom Limited became the ultimate parent company of Avago and BRCM. Financial results for the fiscal periods prior to the Acquisition relate solely to the Company’s predecessor, Avago. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this press release to “Broadcom,” “the Company,” “we,” “our,” “us” and similar terms are to Broadcom Limited from and after the effective time of the Acquisition and, prior to that time, to its predecessor, Avago. The financial results from businesses that have been classified as discontinued operations in the Company’s financial statements are not included in the results presented below, unless otherwise stated.  

First Quarter Fiscal Year 2017 GAAP Results  

Net revenue was $4,139 million, slightly higher than the $4,136 million in the previous quarter and an increase of 134 percent from $1,771 million in the same quarter last year.  

Gross margin was $2,001 million, or 48.3 percent of net revenue. This compares with gross margin of $2,171 million, or 52.5 percent of net revenue, in the prior quarter, and gross margin of $941 million, or 53.1 percent of net revenue, in the same quarter last year.  

Operating expenses were $1,495 million. This compares with $1,790 million in the prior quarter and $466 million in the same quarter last year.  

Operating income was $506 million, or 12.2 percent of net revenue. This compares with operating income of $381 million, or 9.2 percent of net revenue, in the prior quarter, and operating income of $475 million, or 26.8 percent of net revenue, in the same quarter last year.  

Net income, which includes the impact of discontinued operations, was $252 million, or $0.57 per diluted share. This compares with net loss of $668 million, or $1.59 per diluted share, in the prior quarter, and net income of $377 million, or $1.30 per diluted share, in the same quarter last year.  

Net income attributable to ordinary shares was $239 million. Net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest (restricted exchangeable limited partnership units (“REUs”)) in the Company’s subsidiary, Broadcom Cayman L.P. (the “Partnership”), was $13 million.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company’s cash balance at the end of the first fiscal quarter was $3,536 million, compared to $3,097 million at the end of the prior quarter.  

During the first quarter, the Company generated $1,353 million in cash from operations and spent $325 million on capital expenditures.  

On December 30, 2016, the Company paid a cash dividend of $1.02 per ordinary share, totaling $408 million. On the same date, the Partnership, of which the Company is the General Partner, paid holders of REUs a corresponding distribution of $1.02 per REU, totaling $23 million.  

First Quarter Fiscal Year 2017 Non-GAAP Results From Continuing Operations  

The differences between the Company’s GAAP and non-GAAP results are described generally under “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below, and presented in detail in the financial reconciliation tables attached to this release.  

Net revenue from continuing operations was $4,149 million, slightly higher than the $4,146 million in the previous quarter, and an increase of 133 percent from $1,782 million in the same quarter last year.  

Gross margin from continuing operations was $2,590 million, or 62.4 percent of net revenue. This compares with gross margin of $2,522 million, or 60.8 percent of net revenue, in the prior quarter, and gross margin of $1,089 million, or 61.1 percent of net revenue, in the same quarter last year.  

Operating income from continuing operations was $1,806 million, or 43.5 percent of net revenue. This compares with operating income from continuing operations of $1,719 million, or 41.5 percent of net revenue, in the prior quarter, and $783 million, or 43.9 percent of net revenue, in the same quarter last year.  

Net income from continuing operations was $1,627 million, or $3.63 per diluted share. This compares with net income of $1,549 million, or $3.47 per diluted share last quarter, and net income of $710 million, or $2.41 per diluted share, in the same quarter last year.  

2  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

“We had a very good start to our fiscal year 2017 delivering first quarter revenue and gross margin at the top end of guidance,” said Hock Tan, President and CEO of Broadcom Limited. “We expect healthy demand for our products to continue and we are guiding second fiscal quarter revenue to grow organically by 15% on a year over year basis.”  

Other Quarterly Data  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (1) Non-GAAP data include the effect of acquisition-related purchase accounting adjustments relating to licensing revenue.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

3  

Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2017 Business Outlook  

Based on current business trends and conditions, the outlook for continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal year 2017, ending April 30, 2017, is expected to be as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 •   Non-GAAP net revenue includes $10 million of licensing revenue not included in GAAP revenue, as a result of the effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions;  

 •   Non-GAAP gross margin includes the effects of $10 million of licensing revenue, and excludes the effects of $638 million of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, $16 million of share-based compensation expense, and $4 million of restructuring charges;  

 •   Non-GAAP operating expenses exclude $440 million of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, $207 million of share-based compensation expense, $23 million of acquisition-related costs, and $6 million of restructuring charges;  

 •   Non-GAAP tax provision is $4 million higher than GAAP due to the tax effects of the projected reconciling items noted above; and  

 •   Non-GAAP diluted share count excludes the impact of share-based compensation expense expected to be incurred in future periods and not yet recognized in the Company’s financial statements, which would otherwise be assumed to be used to repurchase shares under the GAAP treasury stock method.  

Capital expenditures for the second fiscal quarter are expected to be approximately $290 million. For the second fiscal quarter, depreciation is expected to be $112 million and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets is expected to be approximately $1,078 million.  

The guidance provided above is only an estimate of what the Company believes is realizable as of the date of this release. The guidance also excludes the impact of any additional mergers, acquisitions and divestiture activity that may occur during the quarter. Actual results will vary from the guidance and the variations may be material. The Company undertakes no intent or obligation to publicly update or revise any of these projections, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.  

4  

Interim Dividend  

The Company’s Board of Directors has approved a quarterly, interim cash dividend of $1.02 per ordinary share. A corresponding distribution will also be paid by the Partnership, of which the Company is the General Partner, to holders of REUs, in the amount of $1.02 per REU.  

The dividend and the distribution are both payable on March 31, 2017 to shareholders or unitholders of record, as applicable, at the close of business (5:00 p.m.) Eastern Time on March 20, 2017.  

Financial Results Conference Call  

Broadcom Limited will host a conference call to review its financial results for the first quarter fiscal year 2017, ended January 29, 2017, and to provide guidance for the second quarter of fiscal year 2017, today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time. Those wishing to access the call should dial (866) 310-8712; International +1 (720) 634-2946. The passcode is 67467526. A replay of the call will be accessible for one week after the call. To access the replay dial (855) 859-2056; International +1 (404) 537-3406; and reference the passcode: 12782522. A webcast of the conference call will also be available in the “Investors” section of Broadcom’s website at www.broadcom.com.  

Non-GAAP Financial Measures  

In addition to GAAP reporting, Broadcom provides investors with net revenue, net income, operating income, gross margin, operating expenses and other data on a non-GAAP basis. This non-GAAP information includes the effect, where applicable, of purchase accounting on revenues, and excludes amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, restructuring, impairment and disposal charges, acquisition-related costs, including integration costs, purchase accounting effect on inventory, debt-related costs, gain (loss) on extinguishment of debt, gain (loss) on disposition of assets, income (loss) from discontinued operations and income tax effects of non-GAAP reconciling adjustments. Management does not believe that these items are reflective of the Company’s underlying performance. However, internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of evaluating the core operating performance of the Company, establishing internal budgets, calculating return on investment for development programs and growth initiatives, comparing performance with internal forecasts and targeted business models, strategic planning, evaluating and valuing potential acquisition candidates and how their operations compare to the Company’s operations, and benchmarking performance externally against the Company’s competitors. The presentation of these and other similar items in Broadcom’s non-GAAP financial results should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent or unusual. Broadcom believes this non-GAAP financial information provides additional insight into the Company’s on-going performance and has therefore chosen to provide this information to investors for a more consistent basis of comparison and to help them evaluate the results of the Company’s on-going operations and enable more meaningful period to period comparisons. These non-GAAP measures are provided in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP financial data is included in the supplemental financial data attached to this press release.  

5  

About Broadcom Limited  

Broadcom Limited (NASDAQ: AVGO) is a leading designer, developer and global supplier of a broad range of digital and analog semiconductor connectivity solutions. Broadcom Limited’s extensive product portfolio serves four primary end markets: wired infrastructure, wireless communications, enterprise storage and industrial & other. Applications for our products in these end markets include: data center networking, home connectivity, set-top box, broadband access, telecommunications equipment, smartphones and base stations, data center servers and storage, factory automation, power generation and alternative energy systems, and electronic displays.  

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

This announcement contains forward-looking statements (including within the meaning of Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended) concerning Broadcom. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements that address our expected future business and financial performance and statements about (i) the expected benefits of acquisitions, (ii) our plans, objectives and intentions with respect to future operations and products, (iii) our competitive position and opportunities, (iv) the impact of acquisitions on the market for our products, (v) other statements identified by words such as “will”, “expect”, “intends”, “believe”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “should”, “intend”, “plan”, “potential”, “predict” “project”, “aim”, and similar words, phrases or expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs of the management of Broadcom, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, such management, current market trends and market conditions and involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the Company’s and management’s control, and which may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on such statements.  

Particular uncertainties that could materially affect future results include any risks associated with loss of our significant customers and fluctuations in the timing and volume of significant customer demand; our dependence on contract manufacturers and outsourced supply chain; any acquisitions we may make, such as delays, challenges and expenses associated with integrating acquired companies with our existing businesses and our ability to achieve the benefits, growth prospects and synergies expected from such acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of Broadcom Corporation and our pending acquisition of Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.; our ability to accurately estimate customers’ demand and adjust our manufacturing and supply chain accordingly; our significant indebtedness, including the need to generate sufficient cash flows to service and repay such debt; our ability to improve our manufacturing efficiency and quality; increased dependence on a small number of markets; quarterly and annual fluctuations in operating results; cyclicality in the semiconductor industry or in our target markets; global economic conditions and concerns; our competitive performance and ability to continue achieving design wins with our customers, as well as the timing of those design wins; rates of growth in our target markets; prolonged disruptions of our or our contract manufacturers’ manufacturing facilities or other significant operations; our dependence on outsourced service providers for certain key business services and their ability to execute to our requirements; our ability to maintain or improve gross margin; our ability to maintain tax concessions in certain jurisdictions; our ability to protect our intellectual property and the unpredictability of any associated litigation expenses; any expenses or reputational damage associated with resolving customer product and warranty and indemnification  

6  

 claims; dependence on and risks associated with distributors of our products; our ability to sell to new types of customers and to keep pace with technological advances; market acceptance of the end products into which our products are designed; and other events and trends on a national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive and regulatory nature.  

Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), which you may obtain for free at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov, discuss some of the important risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We undertake no intent or obligation to publicly update or revise any of these forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.  

# # #  

Contacts:  

Broadcom Limited  

Ashish Saran  

Investor Relations  

+1 408 433 8000  

investor.relations@broadcom.com  

7  

BROADCOM LIMITED  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - UNAUDITED  

(IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) For the fiscal quarters ended January 29, 2017 and October 30, 2016, basic income (loss) per share numerators are reduced by the amount of net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest, which is approximately 5.4% of net income (loss) for each of the fiscal quarters ended January 29, 2017 and October 30, 2016. The noncontrolling interest is related to the restricted exchangeable partnership units of Broadcom Cayman L.P. (“Partnership REUs”), of which Broadcom Limited is the General Partner.  

 (2) For the fiscal quarters ended January 29, 2017 and October 30, 2016, diluted income (loss) per share numerators and denominators include the impact of the noncontrolling interest, which assumes conversion of Partnership REUs to Broadcom ordinary shares. The diluted income (loss) per share calculations include 23 million Partnership REUs for each of the fiscal quarters ended January 29, 2017 and October 30, 2016, representing an assumed conversion of 100% of the Partnership REUs under the “if converted” method.  

BROADCOM LIMITED  

FINANCIAL RECONCILIATION: GAAP TO NON-GAAP - UNAUDITED  

(IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT DAYS)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Amounts represent licensing revenue not included in GAAP net revenue as a result of the effect of purchase accounting for acquisitions.  

 (2) The number of shares used in the diluted per share calculations on a non-GAAP basis excludes the impact of share-based compensation expense expected to be incurred in future periods and not yet recognized in the financial statements, which would otherwise be assumed to be used to repurchase shares under the GAAP treasury stock method.  

 (3) Days sales outstanding on a non-GAAP basis includes the impact of the acquisition-related purchase accounting revenue adjustment and excludes the impact of accounts receivable related to discontinued operations.  

 (4) Inventory days on hand on a non-GAAP basis excludes the impact of purchase accounting on inventory, share-based compensation expense and acquisition-related costs.  

BROADCOM LIMITED  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS - UNAUDITED  

(IN MILLIONS)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Amounts as of October 30, 2016 have been derived from audited financial statements as of that date.  

BROADCOM LIMITED  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS - UNAUDITED  

(IN MILLIONS)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]