Form 8-K   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C. 20549  

FORM 8-K  

CURRENT REPORT  

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)  

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): March 1, 2017  

Broadcom Limited  

Broadcom Cayman L.P.  

(Exact name of registrants as specified in its charter)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Registrants’ telephone number, including area code: (65) 6755-7888  

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:  

 ☐ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

 ☐ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.  

On March 1, 2017, Broadcom Limited (“Broadcom” or the “Company”) issued a press release announcing its unaudited financial results for the first fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017. The Company will host an investor conference call on March 1, 2017 at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss these results.  

The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the press release dated March 1, 2017, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  

 Item 8.01. Other Events.  

On March 1, 2017, the Company announced that its Board of Directors has declared an interim cash dividend on the Company’s ordinary shares of $1.02 per share. A corresponding distribution will also be paid by Broadcom Cayman L.P. (the “Partnership”), of which the Company is the General Partner, to holders of the Partnership’s restricted exchangeable partnership units (“REUs”) in the amount of $1.02 per REU. The dividend and the distribution are both payable on March 31, 2017 to shareholders or unitholders of record, as applicable, at the close of business (5:00 p.m.), Eastern Time, on March 20, 2017.  

 Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.  

 (d) Exhibits.  

Exhibit

No.    

Description 

 99.1   Press release, dated March 1, 2017, entitled “Broadcom Limited Announces First Quarter Fiscal Year 2017 Financial Results and Interim Dividend.”  

The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

This announcement contains forward-looking statements (including within the meaning of Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended) concerning Broadcom. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements that address our expected future business and financial performance and statements about (i) the expected benefits of acquisitions, (ii) our plans, objectives and intentions with respect to future operations and products, (iii) our competitive position and opportunities, (iv) the impact of the transaction on the market for our products, (v) other statements identified by words such as “will”, “expect”, “intends”, “believe”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “should”, “intend”, “plan”, “potential”, “predict” “project”, “aim”, and similar words, phrases or expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs of the management of Broadcom, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, such management, current market trends and market conditions and involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the Company’s and management’s control, and which may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on such statements.  

Particular uncertainties that could materially affect future results include any risks associated with the loss of our significant customers and fluctuations in the timing and volume of significant customer demand; our dependence on contract manufacturers and outsourced supply chain; our dependence on outsourced service providers for certain key business services and their ability to execute to our requirements; any acquisitions we may make, such as delays, challenges and expenses associated with integrating acquired companies with our existing businesses and our ability to achieve the benefits, growth prospects and synergies expected from such acquisitions, including our pending acquisition of Brocade Communication Systems, Inc.; our ability to accurately estimate customers’ demand and adjust supply chain and third-party manufacturing capacity accordingly; dependence on a small number of markets; dependence on and risks associated with distributors of our products; quarterly and annual fluctuations in our operating results; cyclicality in the semiconductor industry or in our target markets; global economic conditions and concerns; our competitive performance and ability to continue achieving design wins with our customers, as well as the timing of those design wins; prolonged disruptions of our or our contract manufacturers’ manufacturing facilities or other significant operations; our ability to maintain or improve gross margin; our ability to maintain tax concessions in certain jurisdictions and changes in our taxes; our ability to protect our intellectual property and the unpredictability of any associated litigation expense; any expense or reputational damage associated with resolving customer product warranty and indemnification claims; our significant indebtedness, including the need to generate sufficient cash flows to service and repay such debt; and other events and trends on a national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive and regulatory nature.  

Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), which you may obtain for free at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov, discuss some of the important risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We undertake no intent or obligation to publicly update or revise any of these forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.  

SIGNATURE  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  

Date: March 1, 2017  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

EXHIBIT INDEX  

Exhibit

No.    

Description 

 99.1   Press release, dated March 1, 2017, entitled “Broadcom Limited Announces First Quarter Fiscal Year 2017 Financial Results and Interim Dividend.”