SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8‑K 

CURRENT REPORT 

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) January 18, 2017 

Cigna Corporation 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

900 Cottage Grove Road 

Bloomfield, Connecticut 06002 

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) 

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 

(860) 226-6000 

Not Applicable 

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report) 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: 

  [X]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)   

  [ ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)   

  [ ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))   

  [ ]   Pre-commencement communication pursuant to Rule 13e-49(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))    

Item 8.01  Other Events. 

As previously disclosed, on July 21, 2016, the Department of Justice and certain state attorneys general filed a civil antitrust lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia seeking to block the merger between Cigna Corporation ("Cigna") and Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem"). The trial was completed on January 4, 2017. 

On January 18, 2017, Cigna received written notice from Anthem seeking to extend the termination date of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 23, 2015 (the "Merger Agreement"), from January 31, 2017 through April 30, 2017. Following the issuance of the Court's opinion, Cigna intends to evaluate its options in accordance with the Merger Agreement. 

IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS 

NO OFFER OR SOLICITATION 

This communication is neither an offer to buy, nor a solicitation of an offer to sell, subscribe for or buy any securities or the solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction pursuant to or in connection with the proposed transactions or otherwise, nor shall there be any sale, issuance or transfer of securities in any jurisdiction in contravention of applicable law. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and otherwise in accordance with applicable law. 

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND WHERE TO FIND IT 

In connection with the proposed transaction, Anthem has filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a registration statement on Form S-4, including Amendment No. 1 thereto, containing a preliminary joint proxy statement of Anthem and Cigna that also constitutes a preliminary prospectus of Anthem. The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on October 26, 2015. Each of Anthem and Cigna commenced mailing a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus to its shareholders on or about October 28, 2015. This communication is not a substitute for the registration statement, definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus or any other document that Anthem and/or Cigna have filed or may file with the SEC in connection with the proposed transaction. SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ ALL RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED OR THAT WILL BE FILED WITH THE SEC, INCLUDING THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT ON FORM S-4 AND THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS, CAREFULLY BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN OR WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. The registration statement, the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials and any other documents filed or furnished by Cigna or Anthem with the SEC may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. In addition, security holders may obtain free copies of the registration statement and the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus from Cigna by going to its investor relations page on its corporate web site at www.cigna.com or by contacting Cigna's investor relations department at 215-761-4198 and from Anthem by going to its investor relations page on its corporate web site at www.antheminc.com or by contacting Anthem's investor relations department at 317-488-6181. 

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

This Current Report on Form 8-K may contain forward looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements may include statements regarding the proposed merger between Cigna and Anthem, Inc. You may identify forward-looking statements by the use of words such as "believe," "expect," "plan," "intend," "anticipate," "estimate," "predict," "potential," "may," "should," "will" or other words or expressions of similar meaning, although not all forward-looking statements contain such terms. 

Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: the timing and likelihood of completion of the proposed merger, including the timing, receipt and terms and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory approvals for the proposed merger that could reduce anticipated benefits or cause the parties to abandon the transaction; the possibility that the expected synergies and value creation from the proposed merger will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time period; the risk that the businesses of Cigna and Anthem will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the proposed merger making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the possibility that the proposed merger does not close, including due to the failure to satisfy the closing conditions; the risk that financing for the proposed merger may not be available on favorable terms, as well as more specific risks and uncertainties discussed in our most recent report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K available on the Investor Relations section of www.cigna.com as well as on Anthem's most recent report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K available on the Investor Relations section of www.antheminc.com. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made, are not guarantees of future performance or results, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Cigna undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. 

SIGNATURE 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]