Exhibit 99.1  

 Fortune Brands Reports Sales and EPS for Q4 and Full Year;

Provides 2017 Annual Outlook for Continued Growth  

 Highlights from continuing operations:   

 Q4 2016 sales increased 6 percent year-over-year to $1.3 billion with EPS of $0.67; EPS before charges/gains increased 27 percent to $0.71  

 Full-year 2016 sales increased 9 percent with EPS of $2.61; EPS before charges/gains increased 33 percent to $2.75  

 Company expects full-year 2017 EPS before charges/gains to grow to $2.95 - $3.05 on sales growth of 6 - 8 percent   

 DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 31, 2017--Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. (NYSE: FBHS), an industry-leading home and security products company, today announced fourth quarter 2016 results from continuing operations and provided its 2017 annual outlook for sales and earnings per share.  

 “In the fourth quarter overall sales growth accelerated, led by plumbing, and our teams again delivered strong operating margin growth across all segments,” said Chris Klein, chief executive officer, Fortune Brands. “For the full year 2016, our teams executed well against our strategy for profitable growth and we achieved strong results that met our expectations that increased throughout the year. With this consistently solid execution, we are well-positioned for continued strong performance in 2017 as the housing market continues on its elongated recovery.”  

 Fourth Quarter 2016  

 For the fourth quarter of 2016, sales were $1.3 billion, an increase of 6 percent over the fourth quarter of 2015. Earnings per share were $0.67, compared to $0.54 in the prior-year quarter. EPS before charges/gains were $0.71, compared to $0.56 the same quarter last year. Operating income was $166.4 million, compared to $140.3 million in the prior-year quarter. Operating income before charges/gains was $172.8 million, compared to $147.0 million the same quarter last year, up 18 percent.  

 “Operating margin before charges/gains for the total company grew by 130 basis points to 13.3 percent, with solid performance across all operating segments and organic operating leverage of 45 percent,” said Klein.  

 For each segment in the fourth quarter of 2016, compared to the prior-year quarter:   

 Plumbing sales increased 19 percent. Excluding recent acquisitions, sales increased low double digits driven by a re-invigorated sales and marketing focus under the new Global Plumbing Group structure, and new products. Segment operating margin before charges/gains increased 80 basis points to 20.6 percent.  

 Cabinet sales were down 1 percent primarily due to the negative impact of a calendar shift. Segment operating margin before charges/gains increased 60 basis points to 10.6 percent.  

 Door sales were up 6 percent driven by growth in both the wholesale and retail channels, and operating margin before charges/gains increased 170 basis points to 13.3 percent.  

 Security sales increased 6 percent. Operating margin before charges/gains increased 260 basis points to 15.6 percent.   

 Full Year 2016  

 For the full year 2016, sales were $5.0 billion, an increase of 9 percent over 2015. Earnings per share were $2.61 compared to $1.88 in the prior year, and EPS before charges/gains were $2.75 versus $2.07 last year, an increase of 33 percent.  

 “In 2016 we continued to execute our strategy of disciplined, profitable growth as we increased earnings per share 33 percent. Our sales grew 9 percent and our operating margin before charges/gains exceeded our plan for the year, rising 140 basis points to 13.2 percent. We also saw early benefits from the recent formation of our Global Plumbing Group, where the strategy is to grow sales faster than the market while maintaining margin. Overall, our teams delivered strong results by remaining focused on growing in the most attractive parts of our markets,” said Klein.  

 “In addition to growing our earnings, we continued to deploy capital in value-creating ways as we bought back $424 million of our shares, completed two plumbing acquisitions, and again increased our quarterly dividend. Our balance sheet remained strong during 2016,” said Lee Wyatt, chief financial officer, Fortune Brands. “As of December 31, 2016, cash was $251 million and debt was $1.4 billion, resulting in net debt to EBITDA of 1.5 times and giving us substantial flexibility to continue to create incremental shareholder value. Additionally, free cash flow was $531 million.”  

 Annual Outlook for 2017  

 The Company’s 2017 annual outlook is based on a U.S. home products market growth assumption of 6 to 7 percent and an assumption of 5 to 6 percent growth for our total global market. The Company expects full-year 2017 sales growth in the range of 6 to 8 percent.  

 The Company expects EPS before charges/gains to be in the range of $2.95 to $3.05, the midpoint of which is 14 percent higher than last year, excluding the positive impact of an accounting change on tax rates.  

 “Entering 2017 our annual outlook again calls for strong performance based on improved earnings, a continued focus on disciplined, profitable growth, and the financial flexibility we have to drive incremental growth,” said Klein. “Despite increased uncertainty heading into this year due to the changing political environment, fundamental demand drivers of the U.S. housing market look healthy. We believe we are well-positioned to continue to leverage our structural competitive advantages and drive profitable growth well into the future.”  

 CFO Transition  

 Over the last five and a half years Fortune Brands has established a strong company-wide finance team, and developed strong management procedures. With strong processes and leadership in place, chief financial officer Lee Wyatt has elected to retire at the end of 2017 when he turns 65.  

 Consistent with the Company’s succession planning process, Patrick Hallinan will succeed Wyatt when he steps down at year end. Hallinan recently accepted the position of senior vice president of finance at Fortune Brands to begin the transition. For the past three years, he served as chief financial officer of the plumbing segment. He previously served as vice president of finance at Beam Inc. and as vice president of finance at MasterBrand Cabinets for three years. Hallinan began his career as a consultant at Booz Allen Hamilton. Over the last 25 years he has developed deep experience in finance, strategy and general management.  

 “I am genuinely grateful to Lee for his numerous contributions to the company over the past five and a half years,” said Klein. “Lee has built a world-class finance team and processes that will continue to ensure flawless financial execution across the company and we are extremely well-prepared for this thoughtful transition. Pat will bring both strong financial experience and a deep familiarity with our high-performance culture and strategy to the role, having been a key contributor in two of our largest businesses.”  

 About Fortune Brands  

 Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. (NYSE: FBHS), headquartered in Deerfield, Ill., creates products and services that fulfill the dreams of homeowners and help people feel more secure. The Company’s four operating segments are Cabinets, Plumbing, Doors and Security. Its trusted brands include more than a dozen core brands under MasterBrand Cabinets; Moen, ROHL and Riobel under the Global Plumbing Group (GPG); Therma-Tru entry door systems; and Master Lock and SentrySafe security products under The Master Lock Company. Fortune Brands holds market leadership positions in all of its segments. Fortune Brands is part of the S&P 500 Index. For more information, please visit www.FBHS.com.  

 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

 This press release contains certain “forward-looking statements” regarding business strategies, market potential, future financial performance, the potential of our categories and brands, and other matters. Statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words “believes,” “expects,” “estimates,” “plans,” “look to,” “outlook,” and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “should,” “would,” “may” and “could” are generally forward-looking in nature and not historical facts. Where, in any forward-looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future results or events, such expectation or belief is based on the current plans and expectations of our management. Although we believe that these statements are based on reasonable assumptions, they are subject to numerous factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those indicated in such statements. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including the factors discussed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made as of the date hereof, and except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update, amend or clarify any forward-looking statements to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release.  

 Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information  

 This press release includes measures not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), such as diluted earnings per share before charges/gains, operating income before charges/gains, operating margin before charge/gains, net debt to EBITDA and free cash flow. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measure derived in accordance with GAAP and may also be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies. Reconciliations of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures, and reasons for the Company’s use of these measures, are presented in the attached pages.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  Definitions of Terms: Non-GAAP Measures   

  (a) Operating income before charges/gains is operating income derived in accordance with GAAP excluding restructuring and other charges, Norcraft transaction-related expenses, the impact of income and expense from actuarial gains or losses associated with our defined benefit plans and tax items. Operating income before charges/gains is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to evaluate the returns generated by FBHS and its business segments. Management believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the Company from period to period. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.   

  (b) Defined benefit plan income includes the components of defined benefit plan expense other than service costs. It further excludes actuarial gains or losses.   

  (c) Diluted EPS before charges/gains is income from continuing operations, net of tax, less noncontrolling interests calculated on a diluted per-share basis excluding restructuring and other charges, Norcraft transaction related expenses, the impact of income tax items and the impact of income and expense from actuarial gains or losses associated with our defined benefit plans. Diluted EPS before charges/gains is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to evaluate the overall performance of the Company and believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the Company from period to period. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.   

  (d) EBITDA before charges/gains is income from continuing operations, net of tax, derived in accordance with GAAP excluding the following impacts on income from continuing operations, net of tax: restructuring and other charges, Norcraft transaction-related expenses, the impact of income and expense from actuarial gains or losses associated with our defined benefit plans, depreciation, amortization of intangible assets, interest expense, and income taxes. EBITDA before charges/gains is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to assess returns generated by FBHS. Management believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information about the Company's ability to fund internal growth, make acquisitions and repay debt and related interest. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.   

  (e) Represents external costs directly related to the acquisition of Norcraft and primarily includes expenditures for banking, legal, accounting and other similar services. In addition, it includes the impact of expense related to our estimated purchase accounting inventory step-up.     

 CONTACT:

Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc.

INVESTOR and MEDIA CONTACT:

Brian Lantz

847-484-4574

brian.lantz@FBHS.com