Exhibit   

Exhibit 99.1

NEWS RELEASE

Media Contact: Doug Kline

Sempra Energy

(877) 340-8875

www.sempra.com 

Financial Contact: Patrick Billings

Sempra Energy

(877) 736-7727

investor@sempra.com

SEMPRA ENERGY ANNOUNCES 

2016 EARNINGS

•2017 Earnings-Per-Share Guidance Range Raised to $4.85 to $5.25 

•Dividend Increased 9 Percent to Annualized $3.29 Per Share

•California Utilities Reach Proposed Settlement on Two-Year Extension in Cost-of-Capital Proceeding 

SAN DIEGO, Feb. 28, 2017 - Sempra Energy (NYSE: SRE) today reported 2016 earnings of $1.37 billion, or $5.46 per diluted share, compared with 2015 earnings of $1.35 billion, or $5.37 per diluted share.

These results reflect certain significant items, as described on an after-tax basis in the following table of GAAP earnings, reconciled to adjusted earnings, for the fourth quarter and full year of 2016 and 2015.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Sempra Energy adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS are non-GAAP financial measures and are shown after-tax, and if applicable, after noncontrolling interests. See Table A in the appendix for information regarding non-GAAP financial measures and descriptions of adjustments above. Adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS for the three months and year ended Dec. 31, 2015, have been revised to include after-tax LNG development expenses of $3 million and $10 million, respectively, for consistency with the comparable periods in 2016. LNG development expenses are included in adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS in 2016.

Sempra Energy’s fourth-quarter earnings increased to $379 million, or $1.51 per diluted share, in 2016 from $369 million, or $1.47 per diluted share, in 2015. Sempra Energy’s adjusted earnings in the fourth quarter 2016 were $383 million, or $1.52 per diluted share, compared with $367 million, or $1.46 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter 2015.

Last week, Sempra Energy’s board of directors approved a 9-percent increase in the company’s annualized dividend to $3.29 per share from $3.02 per share.

 “In 2016, we met our key financial targets and executed well on our strategic plan, positioning ourselves for strong performance in 2017 and enabling us to raise our 2017 earnings guidance,” said Debra L. Reed, chairman and CEO of Sempra Energy. “In the past year, we received regulatory approval of our California utilities’ General Rate Case, so they have more revenue certainty through 2018. Our utilities also received regulatory approval to proceed with several major reliability projects. Additionally, in 2016, our Mexican subsidiary, IEnova, completed a successful $1.6 billion equity offering to raise capital and we completed the divestiture of several non-strategic assets.” 

Sempra Energy has reorganized its subsidiaries under two new operating groups. The Sempra Utilities group includes the company’s utility operations: Southern California Gas Co. (SoCalGas), San Diego Gas & Electric (SDG&E) and Sempra South American Utilities. The Sempra Infrastructure group includes the company’s energy infrastructure development activities, investments and operations: Sempra Mexico, Sempra LNG & Midstream and Sempra Renewables.

SEMPRA UTILITIES

San Diego Gas & Electric

SDG&E’s fourth-quarter earnings increased to $151 million in 2016 from $144 million in 2015, due primarily to higher California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) base margin and lower operating expenses, partially offset by lower regulatory rewards and lower earnings associated with an income-tax tracking mechanism in the utility’s final General Rate Case (GRC) decision in 2016. The 2016 GRC final decision requires tracking of tax differences from rate-case-authorized levels.

SDG&E’s full-year earnings were $570 million in 2016, compared with $587 million in 2015.

Southern California Gas Co.

In the fourth quarter 2016, SoCalGas’ earnings rose to $151 million from $143 million in the fourth quarter 2015, due primarily to higher CPUC base margin and lower operating expenses, as well as higher earnings from the pipeline safety and advanced meter programs. These items were partially offset by lower earnings associated with an income-tax tracking mechanism in SoCalGas’ final GRC decision in 2016 and lower regulatory rewards. The 2016 GRC final decision requires tracking of tax differences from rate-case-authorized levels.

SoCalGas’ full-year earnings were $349 million in 2016, compared with $419 million in 2015.

Earlier this month, SoCalGas and SDG&E announced that they have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with other parties for a two-year extension through 2018 and 2019 for the utilities to file their next applications in the Cost-of-Capital proceeding at the CPUC. The MOU terms are materially consistent with the Cost-of-Capital assumptions provided for SDG&E and SoCalGas in the five-year financial plan at Sempra Energy’s 2016 Analyst Conference. The MOU is subject to approval by the CPUC.

Sempra South American Utilities

In the fourth quarter 2016, Sempra South American Utilities earnings were $29 million, compared with $46 million in the year-ago quarter, due primarily to a $14 million increase in deferred income-tax expense related to Peruvian tax reform. 

In 2016, full-year earnings for Sempra South American Utilities were $156 million, compared with $175 million in 2015.

SEMPRA INFRASTRUCTURE

Sempra Mexico

Sempra Mexico’s fourth-quarter 2016 earnings increased to $56 million from $53 million in the fourth quarter 2015.

Sempra Mexico’s full-year earnings increased to $463 million in 2016 from $213 million in 2015, due primarily to the $350 million after-tax remeasurement gain in the third quarter 2016 on the Gasoductos de Chihuahua acquisition, offset by $95 million in after-tax losses related to the planned sale of the Termoeléctrica de Mexicali plant, and a lower favorable impact from foreign currency and inflation effects. 

In December, Sempra Energy’s Mexican operating subsidiary, IEnova, completed its acquisition of the Ventika wind complex in Mexico. The Ventika complex is Mexico’s largest wind farm, with generating capacity of 252 megawatts (MW).

Sempra Renewables

Fourth-quarter earnings for Sempra Renewables were $12 million in 2016, compared with $16 million in 2015, primarily due to a $5 million gain on the sale of the Rosamond Solar project in the fourth quarter 2015. 

In 2016, full-year earnings for Sempra Renewables were $55 million, compared with $63 million in 2015.

Sempra Renewables placed three solar facilities and one wind farm into operation in December, representing 422 MW of clean energy from expansions of the company’s Mesquite Solar complex in Arizona and Copper Mountain Solar complex in Nevada, as well as commissioning of the Black Oak Getty wind farm in Minnesota. 

Sempra LNG & Midstream

Sempra LNG & Midstream recorded a loss of $3 million in the fourth quarter 2016, compared with earnings of $1 million in the fourth quarter 2015.

For the full year, Sempra LNG & Midstream recorded a loss of $107 million in 2016, compared with earnings of $44 million in 2015, due primarily to losses on the permanent release of pipeline capacity contracts.

2017 EARNINGS GUIDANCE

Sempra Energy today increased its 2017 earnings-per-share guidance range to $4.85 to $5.25 from the prior range of $4.80 to $5.20. 

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

Non-GAAP financial measures for Sempra Energy include fourth-quarter and full-year 2016 and 2015 adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share. Additional information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures is in the appendix on Table A of the fourth-quarter 2016 financial tables.

INTERNET BROADCAST

Sempra Energy will broadcast a live discussion of its earnings results over the Internet today at 12 p.m. EST with senior management of the company. Access is available by logging onto the website at www.sempra.com. For those unable to log onto the live webcast, the teleconference will be available on replay a few hours after its conclusion by dialing (888) 203-1112 and entering passcode 5358106. 

Sempra Energy, based in San Diego, is a Fortune 500 energy services holding company with 2016 revenues of more than $10 billion. The Sempra Energy companies’ more than 16,000 employees serve approximately 32 million consumers worldwide.

###

This press release contains statements that are not historical fact and constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by words like "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "forecasts," "contemplates," "assumes," "depends," "should," "could," "would," "will," "confident," "may," "potential," "possible," "proposed," "target," "pursue," "outlook," "maintain," or similar expressions or discussions of guidance, strategies, plans, goals, opportunities, projections, initiatives, objectives or intentions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Future results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. 

Factors, among others, that could cause actual results and future actions to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements include: actions and the timing of actions, including decisions, new regulations, and issuances of permits and other authorizations by the California Public Utilities Commission, U.S. Department of Energy, California Division of Oil, Gas, and Geothermal Resources, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Los Angeles County Department of Public Health, states, cities and counties, and other regulatory and governmental bodies in the United States and other countries in which we operate; the timing and success of business development efforts and construction projects, including risks in obtaining or maintaining permits and other authorizations on a timely basis, risks in completing construction projects on schedule and on budget, and risks in obtaining the consent and participation of partners; the resolution of civil and criminal litigation and regulatory investigations; deviations from regulatory precedent or practice that result in a reallocation of benefits or burdens among shareholders and ratepayers; modifications of settlements; and delays in, or disallowance or denial of, regulatory agency authorizations to recover costs in rates from customers (including with respect to regulatory assets associated with the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station facility and 2007 wildfires) or regulatory agency approval for projects required to enhance safety and reliability; the availability of electric power, natural gas and liquefied natural gas, and natural gas pipeline and storage capacity, including disruptions caused by failures in the transmission grid, moratoriums on the withdrawal or injection of natural gas from or into storage facilities, and equipment failures; changes in energy markets; volatility in commodity prices; moves to reduce or eliminate reliance on natural gas; and the impact on the value of our investment in natural gas storage and related assets from low natural gas prices, low volatility of natural gas prices and the inability to procure favorable long-term contracts for storage services; risks posed by actions of third parties who control the operations of our investments, and risks that our partners or counterparties will be unable or unwilling to fulfill their contractual commitments; 

weather conditions, natural disasters, accidents, equipment failures, explosions, terrorist attacks and other events that disrupt our operations, damage our facilities and systems, cause the release of greenhouse gases, radioactive materials and harmful emissions, cause wildfires and subject us to third-party liability for property damage or personal injuries, fines and penalties, some of which may not be covered by insurance (including costs in excess of applicable policy limits) or may be disputed by insurers; cybersecurity threats to the energy grid, storage and pipeline infrastructure, the information and systems used to operate our businesses and the confidentiality of our proprietary information and the personal information of our customers and employees; the ability to win competitively bid infrastructure projects against a number of strong and aggressive competitors; capital markets and economic conditions, including the availability of credit and the liquidity of our investments; fluctuations in inflation, interest and currency exchange rates and our ability to effectively hedge the risk of such fluctuations; changes in the tax code as a result of potential federal tax reform, such as the elimination of the deduction for interest and non-deductibility of all, or a portion of, the cost of imported materials, equipment and commodities; changes in foreign and domestic trade policies and laws, including border tariffs, revisions to favorable international trade agreements, and changes that make our exports less competitive or otherwise restrict our ability to export; expropriation of assets by foreign governments and title and other property disputes; the impact on reliability of San Diego Gas & Electric Company’s (SDG&E) electric transmission and distribution system due to increased amount and variability of power supply from renewable energy sources; the impact on competitive customer rates due to the growth in distributed and local power generation and the corresponding decrease in demand for power delivered through SDG&E’s electric transmission and distribution system and from possible departing retail load resulting from customers transferring to Direct Access and Community Choice Aggregation; and other uncertainties, some of which may be difficult to predict and are beyond our control.

These risks and uncertainties are further discussed in the reports that Sempra Energy has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports are available through the EDGAR system free-of-charge on the SEC's website, www.sec.gov, and on the company's website at www.sempra.com. Investors should not rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these forecasts or projections or other forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

Sempra South American Utilities, Sempra Infrastructure, Sempra LNG & Midstream, Sempra Renewables and Sempra Mexico are not the same as the California utilities, San Diego Gas & Electric (SDG&E) or Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas), and are not regulated by the California Public Utilities Commission.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SEMPRA ENERGY

Table A (Continued)

RECONCILIATION OF SEMPRA ENERGY GAAP EARNINGS TO SEMPRA ENERGY ADJUSTED EARNINGS (Unaudited)

Sempra Energy Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted Earnings Per Share exclude items (after the effects of taxes and, if applicable, noncontrolling interests) in 2016 and 2015 as follows:

Three months ended December 31, 2016:

▪$(4) million deferred income tax expense related to our decision to hold Termoeléctrica de Mexicali (TdM) for sale

Three months ended December 31, 2015:

▪$2 million reduction in the plant closure loss at San Diego Gas & Electric (SDG&E) related to the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (SONGS) for the shareholder portion of a settlement agreement with Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited to resolve all of SONGS’ insurance claims arising out of the failures of replacement steam generators 

Year ended December 31, 2016:

▪$350 million noncash gain from the remeasurement of our equity method investment in GdC

▪$78 million gain on the sale of EnergySouth

▪$(123) million losses from the permanent release of pipeline capacity at Sempra LNG & Midstream

▪$(80) million adjustments related to tax repairs deductions reallocated to ratepayers as a result of the 2016 General Rate Case Final Decision (2016 GRC FD) at the California Utilities

▪$(27) million impairment charge related to Sempra LNG & Midstream’s investment in Rockies Express Pipeline LLC (Rockies Express)

▪$(90) million impairment of TdM assets held for sale

▪$(5) million deferred income tax expense related to our decision to hold TdM for sale

Year ended December 31, 2015:

▪$36 million gain on the sale of the remaining block of Sempra LNG & Midstream’s Mesquite Power plant

▪$15 million reduction in the plant closure loss related to SONGS, $13 million of which is due to California Public Utilities Commission approval of a compliance filing related to SDG&E’s authorized recovery of its investment in SONGS

Sempra Energy Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted Earnings Per Share are non-GAAP financial measures (GAAP represents accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America). Because of the significance and nature of these items, management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide a meaningful comparison of the performance of Sempra Energy’s business operations from 2016 to 2015 and to future periods, and also as a base for projection of future earnings-per-share compound annual growth rate (EPS CAGR) from 2016 to 2020. Non-GAAP financial measures are supplementary information that should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The table below reconciles for historical periods these non-GAAP financial measures to Sempra Energy Earnings and Diluted Earnings Per Common Share, which we consider to be the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]