Exhibit   

Exhibit 99.1

Verisk Analytics, Inc., Reports Fourth-Quarter 2016 Financial Results[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

JERSEY CITY, N.J., February 21, 2017 — Verisk Analytics, Inc. (Nasdaq:VRSK), a leading data analytics provider, today announced results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2016. Scott Stephenson, chairman, president and CEO, said, “We delivered another quarter of revenue growth, leading margins, and strong cash generation despite currency and energy end-market headwinds. The resilience of our financial performance reflects the distinctiveness of our businesses and the outstanding dedication of our people. Our initiatives during the year position us well to execute on our plans for 2017.”

Table 1: Summary of Results 

(in millions, except per share amounts) 

Note: Continuing operations reflect the 2016 sale of the healthcare services business. Adjusted net income, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted EPS exclude second-quarter 2015 nonrecurring items related to the Wood Mackenzie acquisition. Fourth-quarter 2016 adjusted EBITDA excludes $19 million related to an ESOP payment.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue

Total revenue from continuing operations increased 6.0% and 6.2% on an organic constant currency basis in the fourth quarter. For the full year, total revenue from continuing operations grew 13.3%, and 5.8% on an organic constant currency basis. Financial services led organic revenue growth for the quarter and the full year. 

Decision Analytics segment revenue from continuing operations grew 6.5% in the fourth quarter and 18.5% for the full year. Decision Analytics organic constant currency revenue growth was 7.3% in the quarter and 6.3% for 

1

the full year.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Table 2: Decision Analytics Revenues by Category 

(in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Risk Assessment segment revenue grew 5.1% in the quarter and 5.2% for the full year. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2

Table 3: Risk Assessment Revenues by Category

(in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Expenses, Income, and EBITDA

Cost of revenues from continuing operations increased 20.1% in the fourth quarter and 16.7% for the full year compared with the respective prior-year periods. Excluding the $14.5 million ESOP payment, the increases were 11.1% and 14.4%, respectively. The year-over-year increase, excluding the ESOP payment, is primarily due to contributions from acquisitions, salaries and benefits, and information technology costs. 

Selling, general, and administrative expense from continuing operations, or SG&A, increased 2.0% in the quarter and 8.3% for the full year, primarily due to acquisition-related costs and other expense related to supporting business growth. Excluding the $4.3 million ESOP payment, SG&A decreased 3.7% in the quarter and increased 6.8% for the full year. 

Income from continuing operations decreased 0.5% to $108 million in the fourth quarter and 7.4% to $452 million for the full year. 

Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations increased 7.0% in the quarter and 9.9% for the full year. Excluding the third-quarter 2015 $15.6 million gain on sale of warrants, adjusted EBITDA increased 11.9% for the full year. 

The 10.2% increase in Decision Analytics adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations to $153 million in the quarter was the result of acquisitions, growth in the business, and good cost management. Decision Analytics adjusted EBITDA grew 14.3% for the full year. 

The 2.7% increase in Risk Assessment adjusted EBITDA to $105 million in the quarter was the result of revenue growth. Risk Assessment adjusted EBITDA grew 4.5% for the full year.

Earnings Per Share

Diluted GAAP EPS from continuing operations was $0.63 in the fourth quarter and $2.64 for the full year. 

Diluted adjusted EPS from continuing operations was $0.80 in the fourth quarter, an increase of 8.1% compared with the same period in 2015. Diluted adjusted EPS from continuing operations was $3.11 for the full year, an increase of 8.4% compared with 2015. Diluted adjusted EPS from continuing operations for the full year increased because of organic growth in the business, acquisitions, and lower interest expense. The increases were partially offset by higher fixed asset depreciation expense, higher taxes, and a higher share count. 

Cash Flow

Net cash provided by operating activities was $546 million for the 12 months ended December 31, 2016. Capital expenditures from continuing operations increased 5.2% to $146 million and were 7.3% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016. Free cash flow from continuing operations, excluding $100 million of taxes paid related to the sale of the healthcare business, was $479 million for the full year, an increase of 16.2%. This represented 47.6% of adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations for the 12 months ended December 31, 2016.

Share Repurchases and Financing Activities

The company repurchased 1.8 million shares in the quarter for a total return of capital to shareholders of $144 million. At December 31, 2016, the company had $636 million remaining under its share repurchase authorization.

The company repaid $70.0 million of debt subsequent to the end of the fourth quarter as part of its standard debt management efforts.

3

Conference Call

Verisk’s management team will host a live audio webcast on Wednesday, February 22, 2017, at 8:30 a.m. EST (5:30 a.m. PST, 1:30 p.m. GMT) to discuss the financial results and business highlights. All interested parties are invited to listen to the live event via webcast on the Verisk investor website at http://investor.verisk.com. The discussion will also be available through dial-in number 1-877-755-3792 for U.S./Canada participants or 512-961-6560 for international participants.

A replay of the webcast using Conference ID #7319793 will be available for 30 days on the Verisk investor website and also through the conference call number 1-855-859-2056 for U.S./Canada participants or 404-537-3406 for international participants. 

About Verisk Analytics 

Verisk Analytics (Nasdaq:VRSK) is a leading data analytics provider serving customers in insurance, natural resources, and financial services. Using advanced technologies to collect and analyze billions of records, Verisk Analytics draws on unique data assets and deep domain expertise to provide first-to-market innovations that are integrated into customer workflows. Verisk offers predictive analytics and decision support solutions to customers in rating, underwriting, claims, catastrophe and weather risk, global risk analytics, natural resources intelligence, economic forecasting, and many other fields. Around the world, Verisk Analytics helps customers protect people, property, and financial assets. 

Headquartered in Jersey City, N.J., Verisk Analytics operates in 27 countries and is a member of Standard & Poor’s S&P 500® Index. In 2016, Forbes magazine named Verisk Analytics to its World’s Most Innovative Companies list and to its America’s Best Large Employers list. Verisk is one of only 14 companies to appear on both lists. For more information, please visit www.verisk.com.

Contact:

Investor Relations

David Cohen

Director, Investor Relations and Strategic Finance

Verisk Analytics, Inc.

201-469-2174

david.e.cohen@verisk.com

Media

Rich Tauberman

MWW Group (for Verisk Analytics)

202-600-4546

rtauberman@mww.com

Forward-Looking Statements

This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or to future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the use of words such as “may,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “target,” “seek,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that are, in some cases, beyond our control and that could materially affect actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements.

Other factors that could materially affect actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements can be found in Verisk’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, annual reports on Form 10-K, and current reports on Form 8-K 

4

filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If any of these risks or uncertainties materialize or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary significantly from what we projected. Any forward-looking statement in this release reflects our current views with respect to future events and is subject to these and other risks, uncertainties, and assumptions relating to our operations, results of operations, growth strategy, and liquidity. We assume no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

Notes Regarding the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures 

The company has provided certain non-GAAP financial information as supplemental information regarding its operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, U.S. GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP measures reported by other companies. The company believes that its presentation of non-GAAP measures, such as organic constant currency revenue, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, adjusted net income from continuing operations, adjusted EPS, and free cash flow, provides useful information to management and investors regarding certain financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the company’s management uses these measures for reviewing the financial results of the company and for budgeting and planning purposes.

Our operating results reported in U.S. dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations because the underlying foreign currencies in which we transact change in value over time compared to the U.S. dollar; accordingly, we present certain constant currency financial information to provide a framework to assess how our businesses performed excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We use the term “constant currency” to present results that have been adjusted to exclude foreign currency impact. Foreign currency impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. This impact is calculated by translating comparable prior-period year results at the currency exchange rates used in the current period, rather than the exchange rates in effect during the prior period. 

Adjusted EBITDA is a financial measure that management uses to evaluate the performance of our segments. In all periods shown here and going forward, the company defines “adjusted EBITDA” as net income from continuing operations before interest expense, provision for income taxes, depreciation and amortization expense, non-recurring severance charges, and gain on sale of equity investments, excluding second-quarter 2015 non-recurring items related to the Wood Mackenzie acquisition and a fourth-quarter non-recurring ESOP payment.

Although securities analysts, lenders, and others frequently use EBITDA in their evaluation of companies, EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for an analysis of our statement of cash flow reported under U.S. GAAP. Management uses adjusted EBITDA in conjunction with traditional U.S. GAAP operating performance measures as part of its overall assessment of company performance. Some of these limitations are as follows:

•Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect our cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments.

•Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs.

•Although depreciation and amortization are noncash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized often will have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements.

•Other companies in our industry may calculate adjusted EBITDA differently than we do, limiting the usefulness of their calculations as comparative measures.

See Table 4, below, for a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to income from continuing operations, Table 5 for a reconciliation of adjusted net income to income from continuing operations, and Table 6 for a reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations to net cash provided by operating activities.

5

Table 4: Segment Results Summary 

(in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Continuing operations reflect the 2016 sale of the healthcare services business. Adjusted net income, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted EPS exclude second-quarter 2015 nonrecurring items related to the Wood Mackenzie acquisition. Fourth-quarter 2016 adjusted EBITDA excludes $19 million related to an ESOP payment.

7

Table 5: Adjusted Net Income from Continuing Operations Reconciliation 

(in millions, except per share amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Continuing operations reflect the 2016 sale of the healthcare services business. Adjusted net income, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted EPS exclude second-quarter 2015 nonrecurring items related to the Wood Mackenzie acquisition. Fourth-quarter 2016 adjusted EBITDA excludes $19 million related to an ESOP payment.

Table 6: Free Cash Flow Reconciliation 

(in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Attached Financial Statements 

Please refer to the full Form 10-K filing for the complete financial statements and related notes.

8

VERISK ANALYTICS, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

As of December 31, 2016 and 2015 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

9

VERISK ANALYTICS, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the Three and Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2016 and 2015

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

10

VERISK ANALYTICS, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the Years Ended December 31, 2016 and 2015

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

11

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

12