Exhibit   

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:

February 10, 2016Kristina Waugh 318.340.5627

 kristina.r.waugh@centurylink.com

CENTURYLINK REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL-YEAR 2015 RESULTS

Achieved operating revenues of approximately $4.5 billion, including core revenues1 of approximately $4.0 billion in fourth quarter; full-year 2015 operating revenues of $17.9 billion, a 0.7% decline from full-year 2014

Achieved sequential and year-over-year income margin expansion for Business and Consumer segments

Generated operating cash flow2 of $1.8 billion, excluding special items, in fourth quarter; full-year 2015 operating cash flow, excluding special items, of $7.0 billion

Generated free cash flow2, excluding special items, of $591 million in fourth quarter and $2.7 billion in full-year 2015

Achieved Adjusted Net Income2 of $434 million and Adjusted Diluted EPS2 of $0.80 in fourth quarter, excluding special items

Added more than 16,000 PrismTM TV customers during fourth quarter

Completed $1 billion repurchase program in fourth quarter; repurchased approximately 32 million shares under the program since May 2014

MONROE, La. — CenturyLink, Inc. (NYSE: CTL) today reported results for fourth quarter and full-year 2015. 

“CenturyLink achieved strong fourth quarter financial results as revenues, cash flow and adjusted diluted earnings per share exceeded the top end of our guidance for the quarter, driven by solid revenue performance and lower operating costs,” said Glen F. Post III, chief executive officer and president. “Our Consumer segment continued to perform well as revenues grew both sequentially and year-over-year, while Business segment revenues grew sequentially on stronger core revenue generation. Our employees did a great job of containing costs during the second half of the year, which helped us exceed our goal of planned operating expense reductions for the second half of 2015.

1 Core revenues defined as strategic revenues plus legacy revenues (excludes data integration and other revenues), as described further in the attached schedules.

2 See attachments for non-GAAP reconciliations.

1

“As we look to 2016, we are seeing strong demand for high-bandwidth data and managed services from businesses, which we expect to help mitigate the anticipated further declines in our legacy revenues. Our IT services business, while relatively small today, continued to grow and gain traction during 2015, generating revenues that more than doubled compared to the prior year. We also have a solid funnel of business services opportunities going into 2016, which we expect to help drive network and managed services revenue,” Post concluded.

Fourth Quarter 2015 Highlights[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Operating expenses declined more than $100 million in fourth quarter 2015 compared to third quarter 2015.

•Generated free cash flow of $591 million, excluding special items.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consolidated Financial Results

Operating revenues for fourth quarter 2015 were $4.48 billion compared to $4.44 billion in fourth quarter 2014 driven by the increase in high-cost support revenues due to the recognition of Connect America Fund Phase 2 (CAF Phase 2) support during fourth quarter 2015, along with strength in high-bandwidth data services and Consumer strategic revenues. These increases were partially offset by the declines in low-bandwidth data services, as well as the decline in legacy revenues4 which was primarily driven by access line losses and lower long distance revenues. Growth in strategic revenues was primarily due to continued business customer demand for high-bandwidth data services, along with year-over-year growth in consumer high-speed Internet and CenturyLink® PrismTM TV revenues. 

Operating expenses, excluding special items, decreased to $3.71 billion from $3.86 billion in fourth quarter 2014. The year-over-year decrease was primarily driven by lower depreciation and amortization expenses and employee-related expenses. 

Operating cash flow (as defined in our attached supplemental schedules), excluding special items, increased to $1.82 billion from $1.71 billion in fourth quarter 2014. For fourth quarter 2015, CenturyLink achieved an operating cash flow margin, excluding special items, of 40.6% versus 38.5% in fourth quarter 2014. 

3 Multi-Protocol Label Switching

4 Beginning first quarter 2015, certain revenues were reclassified between strategic services and legacy services. All historical periods have been restated to reflect this change.

2

Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) exclude the after-tax impact of special items, the non-cash after-tax impact of the amortization of certain intangible assets related to major acquisitions since mid-2009, and the non-cash after-tax impact to interest expense relating to the assignment of fair value to the outstanding debt assumed in connection with those acquisitions. Excluding these items and including the impact of favorable income tax adjustments, CenturyLink’s Adjusted Net Income for fourth quarter 2015 was $434 million compared to Adjusted Net Income of $340 million in fourth quarter 2014. Fourth quarter 2015 Adjusted Diluted EPS was $0.80 compared to $0.60 in the year-ago period due to the higher Adjusted Net Income and the impact of the lower number of shares outstanding due to share repurchases in 2015. See the attached schedules for additional information.

Full-Year 2015 Results

For the full-year 2015, operating revenues decreased to $17.9 billion from $18.0 billion in 2014. Core revenues decreased to $16.1 billion in 2015 from $16.3 in 2014. Operating cash flow, excluding special items, was $7.0 billion in 2015 compared to $7.1 billion in 2014. The decline in operating revenues was driven by the impact of lower legacy voice revenues, a decline in strategic low-bandwidth data services and lower data integration revenues. These revenue declines were partially offset by increases in strategic revenues resulting primarily from increased business customer demand for high-bandwidth data services, along with growth in high-speed Internet and CenturyLink® PrismTM TV revenues, and increased high-cost support revenues due to the recognition of CAF Phase 2 funds. The operating cash flow decline was driven primarily by the decline in operating revenues. Adjusted Net Income, excluding special items, was $1.5 billion in 2015, flat compared to 2014. Adjusted Diluted EPS, excluding special items, was $2.71 in 2015 compared to $2.61 in 2014.

GAAP Results - Fourth Quarter and Full-Year

Under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), net income for fourth quarter 2015 was $338 million compared to a net income of $188 million for fourth quarter 2014, and diluted earnings per share was $0.62 for fourth quarter 2015 compared to $0.33 for fourth quarter 2014.

Net income under GAAP for full-year 2015 was $878 million compared to net income of $772 million for full-year 2014, and diluted earnings per share for full-year 2015 was $1.58 compared to diluted earnings per share of $1.36 for full-year 2014.

Additional details regarding the company’s special items for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 are provided in the accompanying financial schedules.

Segment Financial Results5 

Segment income margin improved to 50.1% from 49.1% a year ago primarily due to cost reduction efforts and strategic revenue growth, which together more than offset the margin impact of the continued decline in legacy revenue.

Business

The Business segment continued to experience solid demand for high-bandwidth data services in fourth quarter 2015.

•High-bandwidth data services revenues from business customers grew approximately 9% year-over-year. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5 All references to segment data herein reflect certain adjustments described in the attached schedules.

3

Consumer

The Consumer segment achieved solid year-over-year revenue growth driven primarily by increased high-speed Internet and CenturyLink® PrismTM TV revenues.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Guidance — Full-Year and First Quarter 2016 

CenturyLink anticipates slightly lower operating revenues and core revenues in full-year 2016 compared to full-year 2015 due to expected legacy revenue declines more than offsetting anticipated increases in strategic revenue growth. Operating cash flow is expected to decline from full-year 2015 primarily driven by the continued decline in legacy and low-bandwidth data services revenues. The company also anticipates lower depreciation and amortization expense for full-year 2016 compared to full-year 2015. Free cash flow in full-year 2016 is expected to decline from full-year 2015 due to the lower level of operating cash flow, an increase in cash income taxes and anticipated capital expenditures of $3 billion for the year.

Full-Year 2016 (excluding special items) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CenturyLink expects first quarter 2016 operating revenues to decrease compared to fourth quarter 2015 primarily due to anticipated declines in legacy, hosting and low-bandwidth data services revenues. The company expects first quarter 2016 operating cash flow to decrease compared to fourth quarter 2015 primarily due to the decline in operating revenues, higher marketing costs and increased payroll taxes, along with approximately $35 million in favorable year-end expense true-ups reflected in fourth quarter 2015 results that are not expected to recur in first quarter 2016. The company also anticipates a decline in depreciation and amortization expense in the first quarter of 2016 which is expected to be more than offset by the decrease in operating cash flow and the impact of favorable income tax adjustments in the fourth quarter 2015, resulting in a decline in adjusted diluted EPS in first quarter 2016 compared to fourth quarter 2015.

4

First Quarter 2016 (excluding special items) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

All 2016 guidance figures and 2016 outlook statements included in this release (i) speak as of February 10, 2016 only, (ii) exclude the impact of any share repurchases made after December 31, 2015 and (iii) exclude the effects of special items, future impairment charges, future changes in regulation (including changes in the CAF Phase 2 program), future changes in tax laws, accounting rules or our accounting policies, unforeseen litigation or contingencies, integration expenses associated with major acquisitions, any changes in our pension fundings, any changes in operating or capital plans or other unforeseen events or circumstances that impact our financial performance, and any future mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or other similar business transactions. See “Forward Looking Statements” below. For additional information on how we define certain of the terms used above, see the attached schedules.

Investor Call

As previously announced, CenturyLink’s management will host a conference call at 4:00 p.m. Central Time today, February 10, 2016. Interested parties can access the call by dialing 866-814-1933. The call will be accessible for replay through February 18, 2016, by dialing 888-266-2081 and entering the access code 1667468. Investors can also listen to CenturyLink’s earnings conference call and webcast replay by accessing the Investor Relations portion of the company’s website at www.centurylink.com through March 3, 2016. Financial, statistical and other information related to the call will also be posted to our website.

Reconciliation to GAAP 

This release includes certain non-GAAP financial measures, including but not limited to operating cash flow, free cash flow, core revenues, Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted Diluted EPS and adjustments to GAAP measures to exclude the effect of special items. In addition to providing key metrics for management to evaluate the company’s performance, we believe these measurements assist investors in their understanding of period-to-period operating performance and in identifying historical and prospective trends. Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the attached financial schedules. Reconciliation of additional non-GAAP financial measures that may be discussed during the earnings call described above will be available in the Investor Relations portion of the company’s website at www.centurylink.com. Investors are urged to consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not in substitution for, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.

About CenturyLink

CenturyLink (NYSE: CTL) is a global communications, hosting, cloud and IT services company enabling millions of customers to transform their businesses and their lives through innovative technology solutions. CenturyLink offers network and data systems management, Big Data analytics and IT consulting, and operates more than 55 data centers in North America, Europe and Asia. The company provides broadband, voice, video, data and managed services over a robust 250,000-route-mile U.S. fiber network and a 300,000-route-mile international transport network. Visit www.centurylink.com for more information.

5

Forward Looking Statements

Except for historical and factual information, the matters set forth in this release and other of our oral or written statements identified by words such as “estimates,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “plans,” “intends,” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements as defined by the federal securities laws, and are subject to the “safe harbor” protections thereunder. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are based on current expectations only, are inherently speculative, and are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated, projected, or implied by us if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers, including lower demand for our legacy offerings; the effects of new, emerging or competing technologies, including those that could make our products less desirable or obsolete; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry, including the outcome of regulatory or judicial proceedings relating to intercarrier compensation, interconnection obligations, access charges, universal service, broadband deployment, data protection and net neutrality; our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services, including our ability to effectively respond to increased demand for high-speed broadband service; our ability to successfully maintain the quality and profitability of our existing product and service offerings and to introduce new offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; the adverse impact on our business and network from possible equipment failures, service outages, security breaches or similar events impacting our network; our ability to generate cash flows sufficient to fund our financial commitments and objectives, including our capital expenditures, operating costs, share repurchases, dividends, pension contributions and debt payments; changes in our operating plans, corporate strategies, dividend payment plans or other capital allocation plans, whether based upon changes in our cash flows, cash requirements, financial performance, financial position, or otherwise; our ability to effectively retain and hire key personnel and to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; increases in the costs of our pension, health, post-employment or other benefits, including those caused by changes in markets, interest rates, mortality rates, demographics or regulations; adverse changes in our access to credit markets on favorable terms, whether caused by changes in our financial position, lower debt credit ratings, unstable markets or otherwise; our ability to maintain favorable relations with our key business partners, suppliers, vendors, landlords and financial institutions; our ability to effectively manage our expansion opportunities; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled customers; any adverse developments in legal or regulatory proceedings involving us; changes in tax, communications, pension, healthcare or other laws or regulations, in governmental support programs, or in general government funding levels; the effects of changes in accounting policies or practices, including potential future impairment charges; the effects of adverse weather or other natural or man-made disasters; the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in operating costs, in general market, labor, economic or geo-political conditions, or in public policy; and other risks referenced from time to time in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). For all the reasons set forth above and in our SEC filings, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance upon any of our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, changed circumstances, or otherwise. Furthermore, any information about our intentions contained in any of our forward-looking statements reflects our intentions as of the date of such forward-looking statement, and is based upon, among other things, existing regulatory, technological, industry, competitive, economic and market conditions, and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, strategies or plans without notice at any time and for any reason.

6

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

8

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

9

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

10

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

11

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

12

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

13

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

14

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

15

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

16