Exhibit 99.1  

 Concho Resources Inc. Reports Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2015 Results  

 MIDLAND, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 24, 2016--Concho Resources Inc. (NYSE: CXO) (the “Company” or “Concho”) today reported financial and operating results for the fourth quarter and full year 2015.  

 Highlights   

 Full-year 2015 production increased 28% year-over-year, with crude oil production up 31%.  

 Exploration and development capital expenditures were $1.8 billion during 2015, down 28% from 2014.  

 Year-end 2015 estimated proved reserves totaled 623.5 MMBoe.  

 Reserves replaced at a ratio of 291%, excluding price revisions, and at a drill-bit finding and development cost of $11.66 per Boe.  

 Total resource potential estimated at approximately 5 billion Boe, up from 3.7 billion Boe at year end 2014.  

 2016 capital lowered to $1.2 billion from $1.4 billion.   

 See “Supplemental Non-GAAP Financial Measures” at the end of this press release for an explanation of how we calculate and use the reserves replacement ratio and finding and development costs.  

 Tim Leach, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, commented, “Concho achieved record operating performance in 2015. This performance demonstrates our ability to adapt to challenging conditions and generate greater capital productivity across our assets, while strengthening our portfolio. Looking ahead to 2016, we plan to execute a disciplined capital program focused on capturing operational efficiencies and optimizing development. Our near-term strategy, high-quality resource base and strong balance sheet uniquely position Concho to build long-term value for our shareholders.”  

 Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2015 Operations Summary  

 Production for the fourth quarter of 2015 was 13.2 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMBoe), or an average of 144.0 thousand Boe per day (MBoepd), an increase of 15% from the fourth quarter of 2014 and above the high-end of the Company’s guidance.  

 Production for full year 2015 totaled 52.3 MMBoe, or an average of 143.3 MBoepd, an increase of 28% over full year 2014. Full-year 2015 production was comprised of 66% oil and 34% natural gas.  

 During the fourth quarter of 2015, Concho averaged 12 rigs, compared to 15 rigs in the third quarter of 2015. Concho started drilling or participating in a total of 67 gross wells (41 operated) and completed 62 gross wells during the fourth quarter of 2015. The table below summarizes the Company’s drilling activity by core area for the fourth quarter and full year 2015.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Delaware Basin  

 Production from horizontal wells in the Delaware Basin totaled 84.4 MBoepd in the fourth quarter of 2015, up approximately 31% over the fourth quarter of 2014. During the fourth quarter of 2015, Concho drilled 28 wells in the Delaware Basin, including nine wells targeting the Avalon Shale, 10 wells targeting the Bone Spring Sands and nine wells targeting the Wolfcamp.  

 Concho added 24 new horizontal wells in the northern Delaware Basin with at least 30 days of production as of the end of the fourth quarter of 2015. The average peak 30-day and 24-hour rates for these wells were 957 Boe per day (Boepd) (74% oil) and 1,445 Boepd, respectively. The average lateral length for these wells was 4,785 feet.  

 Concho added five new horizontal wells in the southern Delaware Basin with at least 30 days of production as of the end of the fourth quarter of 2015. The average peak 30-day and 24-hour rates for these wells were 1,199 Boepd (78% oil) and 1,498 Boepd, respectively. The average lateral length for these wells was 6,867 feet, setting a new record for Concho in the southern Delaware Basin.  

 The Company currently has eight horizontal rigs in the Delaware Basin, with six horizontal rigs in the northern Delaware Basin and two horizontal rigs in the southern Delaware Basin.  

 Midland Basin  

 Concho added five new horizontal wells with at least 30 days of production as of the end of the fourth quarter of 2015. The average peak 30-day and 24-hour rates for these wells were 835 Boepd (85% oil) and 1,099 Boepd, respectively, from an average lateral length of 6,634 feet.  

 The Company currently has one horizontal rig in the Midland Basin.  

 New Mexico Shelf  

 On the New Mexico Shelf, Concho added 10 new horizontal wells with at least 30 days of production as of the end of the fourth quarter of 2015. The average peak 30-day and 24-hour rates for these wells were 354 Boepd (81% oil) and 497 Boepd, respectively.  

 The Company currently has one horizontal rig on the New Mexico Shelf.  

 Fourth-Quarter 2015 Financial Summary  

 Concho’s average realized price for oil and natural gas for the fourth quarter of 2015, excluding the effect of commodity derivatives, was $29.38 per Boe, compared with $51.77 per Boe for the fourth quarter of 2014.  

 Net loss for the fourth quarter of 2015 was $0.8 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, compared to net income of $129.9 million, or $1.15 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2014. Adjusted net loss (non-GAAP), which excludes non-cash and unusual items, for the fourth quarter of 2015 was $9.4 million, or $0.07 per diluted share, compared with adjusted net income (non-GAAP) of $99.7 million, or $0.88 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2014.  

 EBITDAX (non-GAAP) for the fourth quarter of 2015 totaled $401.4 million, compared to $509.6 million for the fourth quarter of 2014.  

 Full-Year 2015 Financial Summary  

 The Company’s average realized price for oil and natural gas for full year 2015, excluding the effect of commodity derivatives, was $34.49 per Boe, compared with $65.08 per Boe for full year 2014.  

 Net income for full year 2015 was $65.9 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, compared to net income of $538.2 million, or $4.88 per diluted share, for full year 2014. Adjusted net income (non-GAAP), which excludes non-cash and unusual items, for full year 2015 was $110.8 million, or $0.91 per diluted share, compared with adjusted net income (non-GAAP) of $443.6 million, or $4.02 per diluted share, for full year 2014.  

 EBITDAX (non-GAAP) for 2015 totaled $1.7 billion, compared to $2.0 billion for full year 2014.  

 Cash flows generated from operating activities for full year 2015 totaled $0.9 billion, compared with $1.7 billion for full year 2014. Adjusted cash flows (non-GAAP), which are cash flows from operating activities adjusted for settlements on derivatives, were $1.5 billion for full year 2015, as compared to $1.7 billion for full year 2014.  

 Costs incurred for exploration and development activities were $1.8 billion, and costs incurred for property acquisitions were $0.3 billion for full year 2015. For a summary of costs incurred for the year ended December 31, 2015, see “Costs Incurred” below.  

 See “Supplemental Non-GAAP Financial Measures” at the end of this press release for a description of non-GAAP measures adjusted net income (loss), adjusted earnings per share, EBITDAX and adjusted cash flows and a reconciliation of these measures to the associated GAAP measures.  

 2015 Proved Reserves  

 At December 31, 2015, Concho’s estimated proved reserves totaled 623.5 MMBoe. The Company’s proved reserves are approximately 59% crude oil and 41% natural gas. Proved developed reserves represent approximately 57% of total proved reserves.  

 During 2015, Concho added 152.2 MMBoe of proved reserves due to drilling and completion operations and acquisitions, resulting in a reserve replacement ratio of 291%, excluding price revisions. Drill-bit finding and development cost was $11.66 per Boe for 2015, compared to $14.02 per Boe for 2014. At December 31, 2015, the Company’s three-year average drill-bit finding and development cost was $13.84 per Boe.  

 Concho estimates current resource potential at approximately 5 billion Boe, including total proved reserves. Concho’s current resource potential is attributable to approximately 18,000 horizontal drilling locations, underscoring the Company’s transition to large-scale horizontal development in the Permian Basin.  

 Each of Concho’s core areas contributed to resource expansion. In the northern Delaware Basin, the Avalon Shale and Wolfcamp were the biggest contributors to increasing resource due to successful delineation wells and downspacing pilots. Concho’s recent transactions in the southern Delaware Basin combined with industry-leading results targeting the upper Wolfcamp drove a substantial increase in year-end resource. In the Midland Basin, Concho’s horizontal development program continues to exceed expectations. Consistently strong results in the Wolfcamp as well as successful delineation wells in the Lower Spraberry provide confidence around the high-quality resource potential in the Midland Basin. The shallow oil play on the New Mexico Shelf continues to deliver impressive returns, and Concho is extending the life of our legacy oil play with horizontal drilling and completion techniques.  

 Commenting on the Company’s expanded resource potential and drilling inventory, Mr. Leach said:  

 “Over the past two years, our drilling program and technical teams delineated a significant amount of resource that, when combined with our efforts to actively manage our portfolio, provides Concho a solid platform for future growth.”  

 For a summary of estimated proved reserves, please see “Estimated Year-End Proved Reserves” below, and for an explanation of how we calculate and use the reserves replacement ratio and finding and development costs, please see “Supplemental Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below.  

 Outlook  

 First Quarter 2016  

 Production for the first quarter of 2016 is expected to be 130 MBoepd to 134 MBoepd. The outlook for first-quarter 2016 production is a result of reducing drilling and completion activity to align capital spending with cash flow in the second half of 2015 as well as recent operational constraints. These operational constraints, which include a third-party natural gas plant that remains inoperable and a winter storm in the last week of December that affected our operations in southeast New Mexico, are expected to negatively impact production for the first quarter of 2016 by 6 MBoepd. Additionally, weather-related repairs are expected to contribute to an increase in lease operating expense for the first quarter of 2016; as a result, lease operating expense is expected to be $7.75 per Boe to $8.00 per Boe. The crude oil price differential relative to NYMEX is expected to be ($4.50) per Bbl to ($4.70) per Bbl for the first quarter of 2016 and ($3.75) per Bbl to ($4.25) per Bbl for full year 2016.  

 Full Year 2016  

 The Company continues to scale capital spending with cash flow due to persistently low commodity prices and currently expects to execute a $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion capital plan in 2016, with approximately 90% for drilling and completion activity. Concho expects full-year 2016 production will be flat-to-down approximately 5% as compared to 2015. The Company’s 2016 production outlook is primarily driven by the reduction in activity year-over-year, shifting to pad drilling and the timing of completion activity.  

 Commenting on the Company’s updated 2016 capital plan, Mr. Leach said:  

 “By appropriately scaling our capital program we preserve our high-quality drilling projects for a better environment, keep the balance sheet strong and remain well-positioned to capture unique opportunities in our core operating areas. We plan to manage capital spending around anticipated cash flow and retain significant flexibility to adjust our plan as we progress through 2016. Our improving operational efficiency and high-quality drilling inventory provide increasing confidence that we can do more with less. For 2017, we believe we can continue to balance capital spending and cash flow and deliver double-digit production growth, based on the current commodity price outlook.”  

 Concho’s 2016 capital plan excludes acquisitions and is subject to change depending upon a number of factors, including commodity prices and industry conditions. Please see the table under “2016 Guidance” below for detailed information about the Company’s outlook for full year 2016.  

 Financial Position and Liquidity  

 At December 31, 2015, Concho had long-term debt of $3.3 billion and cash of $0.2 billion. Concho’s net debt-to-EBITDAX ratio was 1.8 times at year end 2015. In addition, Concho has a revolving credit facility with $2.5 billion in commitments from its bank group. At December 31, 2015, Concho had no outstanding borrowings on its credit facility, providing the Company with total liquidity of $2.7 billion.  

 Commodity Derivatives Update  

 The Company enters into commodity derivatives to manage its exposure to commodity price fluctuations. For 2016, Concho has crude oil swap contracts covering approximately 63.4 MBopd at a weighted average price of $70.13 per Bbl. Please see the table under “Derivatives Information” below for detailed information about the Company’s current derivatives positions.  

 Conference Call  

 Concho will discuss fourth quarter and full-year 2015 results on a conference call tomorrow, February 25, 2016, at 8:30 AM CT (9:30 AM ET). The telephone number and passcode to access the conference call are provided below:  

 Dial-in: (855) 445-9894

Intl. dial-in: (330) 863-3281

Participant Passcode: 25031593  

 To access the live webcast and view the related earnings presentation, visit Concho’s website at www.concho.com. The replay will also be available on the Company’s website under the “Investors” section.  

 Upcoming Conferences  

 The Company will participate in the following upcoming conferences:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 The Company’s presentation at the Raymond James & Associates 37th Annual Institutional Investors Conference will be webcast and accessible on the “Events & Presentations” page under the “Investors” section of the Company’s website. The Company will refer to its March 2016 Investor Presentation. The presentation will be available on the Company’s website on or prior to the day of the first conference.  

 Concho Resources Inc.  

 Concho Resources Inc. is an independent oil and natural gas company engaged in the acquisition, development, exploration and production of oil and natural gas properties. The Company’s operations are focused in the Permian Basin of southeast New Mexico and west Texas. For more information, visit the Company’s website at www.concho.com.  

 Forward-Looking Statements and Cautionary Statements  

 The foregoing contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, included in this press release that address activities, events or developments that the Company expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements contained in this press release specifically include statements, estimates and projections regarding the Company’s future financial position, operations, performance, business strategy, oil and natural gas reserves, drilling program, capital expenditure budget, liquidity and capital resources, the timing and success of specific projects, outcomes and effects of litigation, claims and disputes, derivative activities and potential financing. The words “estimate,” “project,” “predict,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “potential,” “could,” “may,” “foresee,” “plan,” “goal” or other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. However, the absence of these words does not mean that the statements are not forward-looking. These statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by the Company based on management’s experience, expectations and perception of historical trends, current conditions, anticipated future developments and other factors believed to be appropriate. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. Although the Company believes the expectations reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable and are based on reasonable assumptions, no assurance can be given that these assumptions are accurate or that any of these expectations will be achieved (in full or at all) or will prove to have been correct. Moreover, such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of the Company, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those implied or expressed by the forward-looking statements. These include the risk factors discussed or referenced in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Current Reports on Form 8-K; risks relating to declines in the prices the Company receives, or sustained depressed prices the Company receives, for its oil and natural gas; uncertainties about the estimated quantities of oil and natural gas reserves; drilling and operating risks; the adequacy of the Company’s capital resources and liquidity including, but not limited to, access to additional borrowing capacity under its credit facility; the effects of government regulation, permitting and other legal requirements, including new legislation or regulation of hydraulic fracturing and the export of oil and natural gas; the impact of potential changes in the Company’s credit ratings; environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater contamination; difficult and adverse conditions in the domestic and global capital and credit markets; risks related to the concentration of the Company’s operations in the Permian Basin of southeast New Mexico and west Texas; disruptions to, capacity constraints in or other limitations on the pipeline systems that deliver the Company’s oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas and other processing and transportation considerations; the costs and availability of equipment, resources, services and personnel required to perform the Company’s drilling and operating activities; potential financial losses or earnings reductions from the Company’s commodity price risk-management program; risks and liabilities associated with acquired properties or businesses; uncertainties about the Company’s ability to successfully execute its business and financial plans and strategies; uncertainties about the Company’s ability to replace reserves and economically develop its current reserves; general economic and business conditions, either internationally or domestically; competition in the oil and natural gas industry; uncertainty concerning the Company’s assumed or possible future results of operations; and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.  

 Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to correct or update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Concho Resources Inc.

Summary Production and Price Data

Unaudited  

 The following table sets forth summary information concerning production and operating data for the periods indicated:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Concho Resources Inc.

Estimated Year-End Proved Reserves

Unaudited  

 The table below provides a summary of changes in total proved reserves for the year ended December 31, 2015, as well as proved developed reserves at the beginning and end of the year.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Concho Resources Inc.

Costs Incurred (a)

Unaudited  

 The table below provides the costs incurred for oil and natural gas producing activities for the periods indicated:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Concho Resources Inc.

Derivatives Information

Unaudited  

 The table below provides data associated with the Company’s derivatives at February 24, 2016, for the periods indicated:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Concho Resources Inc.

Supplemental Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Unaudited  

 The following tables provide information that the Company believes may be useful to investors who follow the practice of some industry analysts who adjust reported company net income (loss) and earnings per share to exclude certain non-cash and unusual items and cash flows from operating activities to adjust for settlements on derivatives.  

 Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted Earnings per Share  

 The following table provides a reconciliation from the United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) measure of net income (loss) to adjusted net income (loss) (non-GAAP) for the periods indicated:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Adjusted Cash Flows  

 The following table provides a reconciliation of the GAAP measure of cash flows from operating activities to adjusted cash flows (non-GAAP) for the periods indicated:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 EBITDAX  

 EBITDAX (as defined below) is presented herein and reconciled from the GAAP measure of net income (loss) because of its wide acceptance by the investment community as a financial indicator of a company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities.  

 The Company defines EBITDAX as net income (loss), plus (1) exploration and abandonments expense, (2) depreciation, depletion and amortization expense, (3) accretion expense, (4) impairments of long-lived assets, (5) non-cash stock-based compensation expense, (6) gain on derivatives, (7) cash receipts from derivatives, (8) loss on disposition of assets and other, (9) interest expense, (10) loss on extinguishment of debt and (11) federal and state income taxes. EBITDAX is not a measure of net income or cash flows as determined by GAAP.  

 The Company’s EBITDAX measure provides additional information which may be used to better understand the Company’s operations. EBITDAX is one of several metrics that the Company uses as a supplemental financial measurement in the evaluation of its business and should not be considered as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, net income as an indicator of operating performance. Certain items excluded from EBITDAX are significant components in understanding and assessing a company's financial performance, such as a company's cost of capital and tax structure, as well as the historic cost of depreciable assets, none of which are components of EBITDAX. EBITDAX, as used by the Company, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The Company believes that EBITDAX is a widely followed measure of operating performance and is one of many metrics used by the Company’s management team and by other users of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. For example, EBITDAX can be used to assess the Company’s operating performance and return on capital in comparison to other independent exploration and production companies without regard to financial or capital structure, and to assess the financial performance of the Company’s assets and the Company without regard to capital structure or historical cost basis.  

 The following table provides a reconciliation of the GAAP measure of net income (loss) to EBITDAX (non-GAAP) for the periods indicated:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Reserves Replacement Ratio  

 The Company uses the reserves replacement ratio as an indicator of the Company’s ability to replenish annual production volumes and grow its reserves, thereby providing some information on the sources of future production. The reserves replacement ratio is a statistical indicator that is limited because it typically varies widely based on the extent and timing of discoveries and property acquisitions. Its predictive and comparative value is also limited for the same reasons. In addition, since the ratio does not embed the cost or timing of future production of new reserves, it cannot be used as a measure of value creation. The reserve replacement ratio of approximately 291% was calculated by dividing net proved reserve additions of 152.2 MMBoe (the sum of extensions, discoveries, revisions other than price-related revisions and purchases) by production of 52.3 MMBoe.  

 Drill-Bit Finding and Development Cost  

 Drill-bit finding and development cost is a non-GAAP measure used to assist in an evaluation of how much it costs the Company, on a per Boe basis, to add proved reserves. Drill-bit finding and development costs are calculated by dividing the sum of exploration costs and development costs of $1.8 billion by total reserve extensions and discoveries of 157.1 MMBoe. This calculation does not include the future development costs required for the development of proved undeveloped reserves.  

 Three-Year Drill-Bit Finding and Development Cost  

 Three-year drill-bit finding and development cost is a non-GAAP measure used to assist in an evaluation of how much it costs the Company, on a per Boe basis, to add proved reserves. Drill-bit finding and development costs are calculated by dividing the sum of exploration costs and development costs for full-year 2013, 2014 and 2015 of $6.2 billion by total reserve extensions and discoveries during full-year 2013, 2014 and 2015 of 444.5 MMBoe. This calculation does not include the future development costs required for the development of proved undeveloped reserves.  

 The following table summarizes the Company’s operational and financial guidance for 2016. The Company’s capital plan guidance for 2016 excludes acquisitions.  

 Concho Resources Inc.

2016 Guidance  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 CONTACT:

Concho Resources Inc.

Megan P. Hays, 432-685-2533

Director of Investor Relations

or

Mary Tennant, 432-221-0477

Senior Financial Analyst

or

Gabriel Middendorf, 432-685-2577

Financial Analyst