Exhibit   

EXHIBIT 99.1

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

EOG Resources Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Results and Announces 2016 Capital Program Focused on Premium Drilling Inventory

•Exceeds Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Production Targets

•Achieves Record Year for Improved Well Productivity and Efficiency Gains 

•Reduces Fourth Quarter Per-Unit Lease and Well Expenses by 30 Percent Versus Prior Year

•Replaces 192 Percent of 2015 Production, Excluding Price Revisions

•Announces Disciplined 2016 Capital Plan and Operations Strategy

•Defines More Than 2.0 BnBoe and 10 Years of Premium Drilling Inventory

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Thursday, February 25, 2016

HOUSTON - EOG Resources, Inc. (EOG) today reported a fourth quarter 2015 net loss of $284.3 million, or $0.52 per share. This compares to fourth quarter 2014 net income of $444.6 million, or $0.81 per share. For the full year 2015, EOG reported a net loss of $4.5 billion, or $8.29 per share, compared to net income of $2.9 billion, or $5.32 per share, for the full year 2014.

Adjusted non-GAAP net loss for the fourth quarter 2015 was $149.5 million, or $0.27 per share, compared to adjusted non-GAAP net income of $431.9 million, or $0.79 per share, for the same prior year period. Adjusted non-GAAP net income for the full year 2015 was $33.9 million, or $0.06 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $2.7 billion, or $4.95 per share, for the full year 2014. Adjusted non-GAAP net income (loss) is calculated by matching realizations to settlement months and making certain other adjustments in order to exclude one-time items. (Please refer to the attached tables for the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures.)

Significant reductions in operating expenses were more than offset by lower commodity prices, resulting in decreases to adjusted non-GAAP net income, discretionary cash flow and EBITDAX during 

the fourth quarter and full year 2015 compared to the same periods in 2014. (Please refer to the attached tables for the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures.) 

“EOG’s performance was resilient in 2015 as oil and natural gas prices declined sharply,” said William R. “Bill” Thomas, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. “We achieved significant reductions in our finding and operating costs and substantially increased the size and the quality of our inventory, which further enhances our unique ability to create long-term shareholder value.”

Operational Highlights

For the full year 2015, while exploration and development expenditures (excluding acquisitions) decreased 42 percent, U.S. crude oil and condensate production remained flat, and overall total company production decreased just 4 percent compared to 2014. Total worldwide liquids production decreased 2 percent, and total worldwide natural gas production decreased 7 percent versus the prior year. 

EOG restrained capital expenditures in the fourth quarter 2015 in response to the lower commodity price environment. Total exploration and development expenditures decreased 56 percent compared to the same prior year period. EOG’s U.S. crude oil and condensate production and total overall company production both decreased by 7 percent in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to the same prior year period. 

EOG continued to enhance operating efficiencies and leverage prior investments in infrastructure, resulting in cost reductions across its operations. During the fourth quarter of 2015, lease and well expenses decreased 30 percent and transportation costs decreased 8 percent compared to the same prior year period, both on a per-unit basis. Total general and administrative expenses decreased 17 percent compared to the fourth quarter 2014.

“EOG remained focused on returns and capital discipline in 2015,” Thomas said. “Our team raised the bar with record-setting operational achievements, technical advances and organic growth additions. These sustainable improvements uniquely position EOG for long-term success in any commodity price environment.”

2016 Capital Plan 

EOG’s 2016 plan is designed to maximize returns, maintain the strong balance sheet and continue to achieve record-setting cost reduction and productivity gains. 

Capital expenditures for 2016 are expected to range from $2.4 to $2.6 billion, including production facilities and gathering, processing and other expenditures, and excluding acquisitions. EOG expects to complete approximately 270 net wells in 2016, compared to 470 net wells in 2015, with total company crude oil production expected to decline only 5 percent versus 2015. This 45 to 50 percent year-over-year 

reduction to capital expenditures reflects the current commodity price environment and further demonstrates EOG’s commitment to maintaining a strong balance sheet with disciplined capital spending. 

The company is shifting its focus to premium drilling and completions in 2016. Driven by continued efficiencies, technical advancements and geoscience breakthroughs, the company has identified over 3,200 premium drilling locations capable of delivering solid rates of return at low commodity prices. Premium drilling is a step change to EOG’s long-term strategy that will enable it to expand its leadership in investment returns and well performance. The company is now positioned to return to high investment rates of return as oil prices experience even a modest recovery. 

“EOG has now identified more than 2 billion barrels of oil equivalent (BnBoe) of estimated net resource potential and a decade of premium drilling inventory that can earn superior returns in a low commodity price environment,” Thomas said. “Breakthroughs of this magnitude are unique and will enable EOG to extend its lead as the low-cost U.S. horizontal oil producer. We are confident our organic growth machine will continue to increase both the size and quality of our premium drilling inventory and allow EOG to enjoy a strong competitive advantage in the world oil market.” 

South Texas Eagle Ford

The South Texas Eagle Ford continues to showcase EOG’s technological advances in lateral placement and completion design. During 2015, the company expanded the use of precision lateral targeting and high-density completions across the Eagle Ford. EOG’s other plays benefit from these industry-leading breakthroughs by quickly adapting these new technologies to each unique environment.

During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Eagle Ford once again delivered outstanding well performance across the play. In the eastern Eagle Ford in Karnes County, the Lightfoot Unit 5H through 8H four-well pattern had average 30-day initial production rates per well of 2,425 barrels of oil per day (Bopd), 285 barrels per day (Bpd) of natural gas liquids (NGLs) and 1.9 million cubic feet per day (MMcfd) of natural gas. In Gonzales County, the Lepori Unit 4H had 30-day initial production rates of 2,915 Bopd, 370 Bpd of NGLs and 2.4 MMcfd of natural gas. In the western Eagle Ford in McMullen County, the Naylor Jones Unit 31-1H had 30-day initial production rates of 1,780 Bopd, 165 Bpd of NGLs and 1.1 MMcfd of natural gas. 

In 2016, EOG plans to complete approximately 150 net wells in the Eagle Ford, compared to 329 net wells completed in 2015.

Delaware Basin

2015 was an important year for EOG in the Delaware Basin where EOG increased its estimated net resource potential by 1.0 BnBoe. With approximately 2.35 BnBoe in total estimated net resource 

potential, EOG possesses a premier position in the Permian’s best horizontal oil basin. EOG made significant advances in the basin in 2015 by expanding its technical understanding and improving returns by increasing well productivity and reducing costs. 

In the Delaware Basin Wolfcamp, EOG completed a dozen wells in the fourth quarter 2015 with average 30-day initial production rates per well of 1,495 Bopd, 300 Bpd of NGLs and 2.5 MMcfd of natural gas. 

EOG’s 2016 plans for the Delaware Basin include completing approximately 75 net wells versus 74 net wells completed in 2015. 

North Dakota Bakken and Rockies

EOG continues to advance its high-potential Rockies oil plays. In 2015, EOG added 600 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMBoe) to its Bakken net resource potential estimate, bringing EOG’s total net resource potential estimate to approximately 1.0 BnBoe. EOG has decades of drilling inventory in this world-class oil basin.

During 2015, EOG continued to delineate its Powder River Basin and DJ Basin oil plays. In the fourth quarter 2015, EOG completed several wells in the Powder River Basin Turner oil play. The Blade 202-2116H and the Flatbow 602-1621H had 30-day initial production rates of 1,300 Bopd, 120 Bpd of NGLs and 1.4 MMcfd of natural gas, and 1,280 Bopd, 145 Bpd of NGLs and 1.7 MMcfd of natural gas, respectively.

In 2016, EOG plans to complete approximately 35 net wells in these plays, compared to 48 net wells in 2015. 

Reserves

At year-end, total company net proved reserves were 2,118 MMBoe, comprised of 52 percent crude oil and condensate, 18 percent NGLs and 30 percent natural gas. Net proved reserve additions, excluding revisions due to price, replaced 192 percent of EOG’s 2015 production at a finding and development cost of $11.91 per barrel of oil equivalent. Revisions due to price reduced net proved reserves by 574 MMBoe. Driven by declines in commodity prices, total company net proved reserves decreased 15 percent in 2015. (For more reserves detail, including calculation of reserve replacement ratios and reserve replacement costs, please refer to the attached tables.)

For the 28th consecutive year, internal reserve estimates were within 5 percent of estimates independently prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. 

Hedging Activity

For the period March 1 through August 31, 2016, EOG has natural gas financial price swap contracts in place for 60,000 million British thermal units (MMBtu) per day at a weighted average price of $2.49 per MMBtu. EOG has no crude oil financial price contracts in place. A comprehensive summary of natural gas derivative contracts is provided in the attached tables. 

Capital Structure

At December 31, 2015, EOG’s total debt outstanding was $6.7 billion with a debt-to-total capitalization ratio of 34 percent. Taking into account cash on the balance sheet of $719 million at year-end, EOG’s net debt was $5.9 billion with a net debt-to-total capitalization ratio of 31 percent. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures is provided in the attached tables. 

Dividend

The board of directors declared a dividend of $0.1675 per share on EOG’s Common Stock, payable April 29, 2016, to stockholders of record as of April 15, 2016. The indicated annual rate is $0.67 per share. 

Conference Call February 26, 2016

EOG’s fourth quarter 2015 results conference call will be available via live audio webcast at 9 a.m. Central time (10 a.m. Eastern time) on Friday, February 26, 2016. To listen, log on to www.eogresources.com. The webcast will be archived on EOG’s website through March 11, 2016.

EOG Resources, Inc. is one of the largest independent (non-integrated) crude oil and natural gas companies in the United States with proved reserves in the United States, Trinidad, the United Kingdom and China. EOG Resources, Inc. is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol "EOG."

This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, including, among others, statements and projections regarding EOG's future financial position, operations, performance, business strategy, returns, budgets, reserves, levels of production and costs, statements regarding future commodity prices and statements regarding the plans and objectives of EOG's management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. EOG typically uses words such as "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "project," "strategy," "intend," "plan," "target," "goal," "may," "will," "should" and "believe" or the negative of those terms or other variations or comparable terminology to identify its forward-looking statements. In particular, statements, express or implied, concerning EOG's future operating results and returns or EOG's ability to replace or increase reserves, increase production, reduce or otherwise control operating and capital costs, generate income or cash flows or pay dividends are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. Although EOG believes the expectations reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable 

and are based on reasonable assumptions, no assurance can be given that these assumptions are accurate or that any of these expectations will be achieved (in full or at all) or will prove to have been correct. Moreover, EOG's forward-looking statements may be affected by known, unknown or currently unforeseen risks, events or circumstances that may be outside EOG's control. Important factors that could cause EOG's actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in EOG's forward-looking statements include, among others:

•the timing, extent and duration of changes in prices for, supplies of, and demand for, crude oil and condensate, natural gas liquids, natural gas and related commodities; 

•the extent to which EOG is successful in its efforts to acquire or discover additional reserves; 

•the extent to which EOG is successful in its efforts to economically develop its acreage in, produce reserves and achieve anticipated production levels from, and maximize reserve recovery from, its existing and future crude oil and natural gas exploration and development projects; 

•the extent to which EOG is successful in its efforts to market its crude oil and condensate, natural gas liquids, natural gas and related commodity production;

•the availability, proximity and capacity of, and costs associated with, appropriate gathering, processing, compression, transportation and refining facilities; 

•the availability, cost, terms and timing of issuance or execution of, and competition for, mineral licenses and leases and governmental and other permits and rights-of-way, and EOG’s ability to retain mineral licenses and leases;

•the impact of, and changes in, government policies, laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations; environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to air emissions, disposal of produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes, hydraulic fracturing and access to and use of water; laws and regulations imposing conditions or restrictions on drilling and completion operations and on the transportation of crude oil and natural gas; laws and regulations with respect to derivatives and hedging activities; and laws and regulations with respect to the import and export of crude oil, natural gas and related commodities; 

•EOG's ability to effectively integrate acquired crude oil and natural gas properties into its operations, fully identify existing and potential problems with respect to such properties and accurately estimate reserves, production and costs with respect to such properties;

•the extent to which EOG's third-party-operated crude oil and natural gas properties are operated successfully and economically;

•competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry for the acquisition of licenses, leases and properties, employees and other personnel, facilities, equipment, materials and services; 

•the availability and cost of employees and other personnel, facilities, equipment, materials (such as water) and services;

•the accuracy of reserve estimates, which by their nature involve the exercise of professional judgment and may therefore be imprecise;

•weather, including its impact on crude oil and natural gas demand, and weather-related delays in drilling and in the installation and operation (by EOG or third parties) of production, gathering, processing, refining, compression and transportation facilities;

•the ability of EOG's customers and other contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations to EOG and, related thereto, to access the credit and capital markets to obtain financing needed to satisfy their obligations to EOG;

•EOG's ability to access the commercial paper market and other credit and capital markets to obtain financing on terms it deems acceptable, if at all, and to otherwise satisfy its capital expenditure requirements;

•the extent and effect of any hedging activities engaged in by EOG;

•the timing and extent of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, global and domestic financial market conditions and global and domestic general economic conditions;

•political conditions and developments around the world (such as political instability and armed conflict), including in the areas in which EOG operates;

•the use of competing energy sources and the development of alternative energy sources;

•the extent to which EOG incurs uninsured losses and liabilities or losses and liabilities in excess of its insurance coverage;

•acts of war and terrorism and responses to these acts; 

•physical, electronic and cyber security breaches; and

•the other factors described under ITEM 1A, Risk Factors, on pages 13 through 21 of EOG’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, and any updates to those factors set forth in EOG's subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K. 

In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events anticipated by EOG's forward-looking statements may not occur, and, if any of such events do, we may not have anticipated the timing of their occurrence or the duration and extent of their impact on our actual results. Accordingly, you should not place any undue reliance on any of EOG's forward-looking statements. EOG's forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and EOG undertakes no obligation, other than as required by applicable law, to update or revise its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events, anticipated or unanticipated circumstances or otherwise.

The United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose not only “proved” reserves (i.e., quantities of oil and gas that are estimated to be recoverable with a high degree of confidence), but also “probable” reserves (i.e., quantities of oil and gas that are as likely as not to be recovered) as well as “possible” reserves (i.e., additional quantities of oil and gas that might be recovered, but with a lower probability than probable reserves). Statements of reserves are only estimates and may not correspond to the ultimate quantities of oil and gas recovered. Any reserve estimates provided in this press release that are not specifically designated as being estimates of proved reserves may include "potential" reserves and/or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with, or contemplated by, the SEC’s latest reserve reporting guidelines. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in EOG’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, available from EOG at P.O. Box 4362, Houston, Texas 77210-4362 (Attn: Investor Relations). You can also obtain this report from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330 or from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In addition, reconciliation and calculation schedules for non-GAAP financial measures can be found on the EOG website at www.eogresources.com. 

###

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(A)Thousand barrels per day or million cubic feet per day, as applicable.

(B)Other International includes EOG's United Kingdom, China, Canada and Argentina operations.

(C)Dollars per barrel or per thousand cubic feet, as applicable. Excludes the impact of financial commodity derivative instruments.

(D)Thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day or million barrels of oil equivalent, as applicable; includes crude oil and condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas. Crude oil equivalent volumes are determined using a ratio of 1.0 barrel of crude oil and condensate or natural gas liquids to 6.0 thousand cubic feet of natural gas. MMBoe is calculated by multiplying the MBoed amount by the number of days in the period and then dividing that amount by one thousand.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

$/MMBtu Dollars per million British thermal units

MMBtud Million British thermal units per day

EOG RESOURCES, INC.

Direct After-Tax Rate of Return (ATROR)

The calculation of our direct after-tax rate of return (ATROR) with respect to our capital expenditure program for a particular play or well is based on the estimated proved reserves ("net" to EOG’s interest) for all wells in such play or such well (as the case may be), the estimated net present value (NPV) of the future net cash flows from such reserves (for which we utilize certain assumptions regarding future commodity prices and operating costs) and our direct net costs incurred in drilling or acquiring (as the case may be) such wells or well (as the case may be). As such, our direct ATROR with respect to our capital expenditures for a particular play or well cannot be calculated from our consolidated financial statements.

Direct ATROR

Based on Cash Flow and Time Value of Money

 - Estimated future commodity prices and operating costs

 - Costs incurred to drill, complete and equip a well, including facilities

Excludes Indirect Capital

 - Gathering and Processing and other Midstream

 - Land, Seismic, Geological and Geophysical

Payback ~12 Months on 100% Direct ATROR Wells

First Five Years ~1/2 Estimated Ultimate Recovery Produced but ~3/4 of NPV Captured

Return on Equity / Return on Capital Employed

Based on GAAP Accrual Accounting

Includes All Indirect Capital and Growth Capital for Infrastructure

 - Eagle Ford, Bakken, Permian Facilities

 - Gathering and Processing

Includes Legacy Gas Capital and Capital from Mature Wells

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]