mm02-0216_8k.htm      

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: 

  ☐   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

  ☐   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

  ☐   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))  

  ☐   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))    

Item 8.01 Other Events 

Attached as Exhibit 99 and incorporated by reference herein is a press release dated February 2, 2016 issued by General Electric Company (“GE”) announcing the expiration of its previously announced cash tender offer to purchase any and all of certain hybrid securities (the “Tender Offer”) as of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on February 2, 2016, and the final results of the Tender Offer. 

Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits 

(d) Exhibits 

99 Press release, dated February 2, 2016 issued by GE. 

This document contains “forward-looking statements” – that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “see,” “will,” “would,” or “target.” 

Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, such as statements about the Tender Offer; our announced plan to reduce the size of our financial services businesses, including expected cash and non-cash charges associated with this plan and earnings per share of GE Capital’s retained businesses; expected income; earnings per share; revenues; organic growth; margins; cost structure; restructuring charges; cash flows; return on capital; capital expenditures, capital allocation or capital structure; dividends; and the split between GE’s industrial business and GE Capital earnings. 

For us, particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

General Electric Capital Corporation (“GECC”) has been merged into GE and our financial services business is now operated by GE Capital Global Holdings, LLC (“GECGH”). We refer to GECC and GECGH as “GE Capital.” 

These or other uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. This document includes certain forward-looking projected financial information that is based on current estimates and forecasts. Actual results could differ materially. 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]