8-K   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D. C. 20549

FORM 8-K

CURRENT REPORT

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)January 5, 2016

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The names and addresses of the registrants have not changed since the last report.

This combined Form 8-K is filed separately by two registrants: The Southern Company and Mississippi Power Company. Information contained herein relating to each registrant is filed by each registrant solely on its own behalf. Each registrant makes no representation as to information relating to the other registrant.

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions:

[ ]

Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)

[ ]

Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)

[ ]

Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))

[ ]Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))

The information in Item 7.01 in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, such information, including the exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. 

Item 7.01.Regulation FD Disclosure.

On January 5, 2016, Mississippi Power Company (“Mississippi Power”) submitted its Kemper County Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle Project Monthly Status Report through November 2015 (the “November PSC Report”) to the Mississippi Public Service Commission (the “Mississippi PSC”) pursuant to Docket No. 2009-UA-14. A copy of the November PSC Report is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.

Item 8.01.Other Matters.

See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY - “Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations” of The Southern Company (“Southern Company”), MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL - “Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle” and - FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY - “Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations” of Mississippi Power, and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and Mississippi Power under “Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle” in Item 8 of each company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 (the “Form 10-K”). See also MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY - “Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations” of Mississippi Power, MANAGEMENT’S 

DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL - “Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle” of Mississippi Power, and Note (B) to the Condensed Financial Statements under “Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle” in each company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 for additional information regarding the construction of the integrated coal gasification combined cycle project in Kemper County, Mississippi (the “Kemper IGCC”), including: (1) the cost cap set by the Mississippi PSC of $2.88 billion, net of $245 million of grants awarded to the project by the U.S. Department of Energy under the Clean Coal Power Initiative Round 2 (the “DOE Grants”) and excluding the cost of the lignite mine and equipment, the cost of the carbon dioxide pipeline facilities, allowance for funds used during construction (“AFUDC”), and certain general exceptions, including change of law, force majeure, and beneficial capital (which exists when Mississippi Power demonstrates that the purpose and effect of the construction cost increase is to produce efficiencies that will result in a neutral or favorable effect on customers relative to the original proposal for the Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity) (the “Cost Cap Exceptions”) and (2) the expected in-service date. 

Management of Mississippi Power is evaluating the construction, commissioning, and start-up schedule for the Kemper IGCC as the result of challenges in ongoing start-up and commissioning activities, including repairs and modifications to the refractory lining inside the gasifiers, as well as operational readiness. Mississippi Power’s previously disclosed projected in-service date for the Kemper IGCC is during the first half of 2016. Any specific updates to the projected in-service date and related cost estimate are expected to be reflected 

in the Kemper IGCC Project Monthly Status Report through December 2015, which Mississippi Power expects to file by early February 2016.

As previously disclosed, any extension of the in-service date beyond June 30, 2016 is currently estimated to result in additional base costs of approximately $25 million to $30 million per month, which includes maintaining necessary levels of start-up labor, materials, and fuel, as well as operational resources required to execute start-up and commissioning activities. However, additional costs may be required for remediation of any further equipment and/or design issues identified. Any extension of the in-service date with respect to the Kemper IGCC beyond June 30, 2016 would also increase costs for the Cost Cap Exceptions, which are not subject to the $2.88 billion cost cap established by the Mississippi PSC. These costs primarily include AFUDC, which is currently estimated to total approximately $13 million per month.

The analysis of the time needed to complete the start-up and commissioning activities for the Kemper IGCC will continue until the remaining Kemper IGCC assets are placed in service. Further cost increases and/or extensions of the in-service date may result from factors including, but not limited to, labor costs and productivity, adverse weather conditions, shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor, contractor or supplier delay, non-performance under construction or other agreements, operational readiness, including specialized operator training and required site safety programs, unforeseen engineering or design problems, start-up activities for this first-of-a-kind technology (including major equipment failure and system integration), and/or operational performance (including additional costs to satisfy any operational parameters ultimately adopted by the Mississippi PSC). In subsequent periods, any further changes in the estimated costs to 

complete construction and start-up of the Kemper IGCC subject to the $2.88 billion cost cap, net of the DOE Grants and excluding the Cost Cap Exceptions, will be reflected in Southern Company’s and Mississippi Power’s statements of income and these changes could be material.

The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

Exhibit

Exhibit 99.01Kemper County Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle Project Monthly Status Report through November 2015 to the Mississippi Public Service Commission submitted by Mississippi Power Company pursuant to Docket No. 2009-UA-14.

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

Certain information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K and in the November PSC Report is forward-looking information based on current expectations and plans that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking information includes, among other things, statements concerning the projected cost and schedule for the completion of construction and start-up of the Kemper IGCC. Southern Company and Mississippi Power caution that there are certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information that has been provided. The reader is cautioned not to put undue reliance on this forward-looking information, which is not a guarantee of future performance and is subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of Southern Company and Mississippi Power; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such suggested results will be realized. The following factors, in addition to those discussed in the Form 10-K and subsequent securities filings, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations as suggested by such forward-looking information: changes in tax and other laws and regulations to which Mississippi Power is subject as well as changes in application of existing laws and regulations; the ability to control costs and avoid cost overruns during the development and construction of facilities, which include the development and construction of generating facilities with designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed, including changes in labor costs and productivity, adverse weather conditions, shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor, contractor or supplier delay, non-performance under construction or other agreements, operational readiness, including specialized operator training and required site safety programs, unforeseen engineering or design problems, start-up activities (including major equipment failure and system integration), and/or operational performance (including additional costs to satisfy any operational parameters ultimately adopted by the Mississippi PSC); the ability to construct facilities in accordance 

with the requirements of permits and licenses, to satisfy any environmental performance standards and the requirements of tax credits and other incentives, and to integrate facilities into the Southern Company system upon completion of construction; advances in technology; actions related to cost recovery for the Kemper IGCC, including the ultimate impact of the 2015 decision of the Mississippi Supreme Court, the Mississippi PSC’s December 2015 rate order, and related legal or regulatory proceedings, Mississippi PSC review of the prudence of Kemper IGCC costs and approval of permanent rate recovery plans, actions relating to proposed securitization, satisfaction of requirements to utilize investment tax credits and grants, and the ultimate impact of the termination of the proposed sale of an interest in the Kemper IGCC to South Mississippi Electric Power Association; and the ability of counterparties of Mississippi Power to make payments as and when due and to perform as required. Southern Company and Mississippi Power expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking information.

SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]