UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF 

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 20, 2016 

STAPLES, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter) 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  Five Hundred Staples Drive, Framingham, MA       01702   

  (Address of principal executive offices)       (Zip Code)     

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: 508-253-5000 

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report) 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: 

x Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) 

o Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) 

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) 

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) 

Item 8.01 Other Events. 

On January 20, 2016, Staples, Inc. (“Staples”) and Office Depot, Inc. (“Office Depot”) issued a joint press release announcing their intent to extend the termination date of the merger agreement providing for the acquisition of Office Depot by Staples until May 16, 2016. 

IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

In connection with the proposed merger, Staples has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) a registration statement on Form S-4 that includes a proxy statement of Office Depot that also constitutes a prospectus of Staples. Staples filed the final proxy statement/prospectus with the SEC on May 18, 2015. The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on May 15, 2015. Office Depot mailed the definitive proxy statement/prospectus to stockholders of Office Depot on or about May 19, 2015, and the stockholders approved the transaction on June 19, 2015. The registration statement and the proxy statement/prospectus contain important information about Staples, Office Depot, the transaction and related matters. Investors and security holders are urged to read the registration statement and the proxy statement/prospectus (including all amendments and supplements thereto) carefully. 

Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the registration statement and the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by Staples and Office Depot through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

In addition, investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the registration statement and the definitive proxy statement/prospectus from Staples by contacting Staples’ Investor Relations Department at 800-468-7751 or from Office Depot by contacting Office Depot’s Investor Relations Department at 561-438-7878. 

SAFE HARBOR FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Statements in this report regarding the proposed transaction between Staples and Office Depot, the expected timetable for satisfying conditions to the merger, including receiving regulatory approvals, and completing the transaction, future financial and operating results, benefits and synergies of the transaction, future opportunities for the combined company and any other statements about Staples or Office Depot managements’ future expectations, beliefs, goals, plans or prospects constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact (including statements containing “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “would,” “intends,” “estimates” and similar expressions) should also be considered to be forward looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements, including: the ability to consummate the transaction; the risk that regulatory approvals required for the merger are not obtained or are obtained after delays or subject to conditions that are not anticipated; the risk that the financing required to fund the transaction is not obtained; the risk that the other conditions to the closing of the merger are not satisfied; potential adverse reactions or changes to business or employee relationships, including those resulting from the announcement or completion of the merger; uncertainties as to the timing of the merger; competitive responses to the proposed merger; response by activist shareholders to the merger; uncertainty of the expected financial performance of the combined company following completion of the proposed transaction; the ability to successfully integrate Staples’ and Office Depot’s operations and employees; the ability to realize anticipated synergies and cost savings; unexpected costs, charges or expenses resulting from the merger; litigation relating to the merger; the outcome of pending or potential litigation or governmental investigations; the inability to retain key personnel; any changes in general economic and/or industry specific conditions; and the other factors described in Staples’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2015 and Office Depot’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 27, 2014 and their most recent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q each filed with the SEC. Staples and Office Depot disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this report. 

2 

Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits 

The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K. 

3 

SIGNATURE 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

Dated: January 20, 2016 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

4 

EXHIBIT INDEX 

  Exhibit No.       Description   

  99.1       Press Release, dated January 20, 2016    

5