ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

This section of the Form 10-K generally discusses 2021 and 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons of 2021 and 2020. Discussions of 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons of 2020 and 2019 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 on our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. 

Executive Overview 

Our mission is to make real estate investments, primarily focused on the multifamily sector within the continental United States, where outcomes are enhanced through our human capital so that substantial value is created for investors, teammates, and the communities in which we operate.  

Please refer to “Item 1. Business” for additional discussion of our business organization and strategy and “Item 2. Properties” and “Schedule III – Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation” for details regarding the size, location, and key characteristics of our various properties. 

The Separation 

On December 15, 2020, Aimco completed the separation of AIR from Aimco, creating two distinct, independent businesses. Prior to the Separation, the consolidated financial statements were prepared on a carve-out basis and reflect significant assumptions and allocations. The consolidated financial statements reflect our historical financial position, results of operations, and cash flows in conformity with U.S. GAAP. The financial statements of Aimco are presented for all historical periods described and at the carrying value of such assets and liabilities reflected in Aimco Predecessor’s books and records.  

Results for the Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2021 

The results from the execution of our business plan during the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, are described below. 

Financial Results and 2021 Highlights 

•  

For the year ended December 31, 2021, net loss attributable to Aimco common stockholders per common share was $0.04 compared to net loss per common share of $0.03 for the year ended December 31, 2020. 

•  

For the year, revenue from our operating properties was up 4.2% compared to 2020, with occupancy up 160 basis points to 97.9%. 

•  

Also, during 2021, we invested approximately $215 million in eight distinctive development and redevelopment projects. Each of these projects are on-time, on-budget and on plan to create substantial value for shareholders.  

•  

We executed more than 630 leases on newly constructed apartment homes in 2021, almost 200 more leases than were planned at the start of the year and at rental rates averaging approximately 115% of target.  

•  

We also sourced and secured new investments in 2021 that provide the opportunity for more than $1 billion of highly accretive development in dynamic, high-growth markets.  

•  

In 2021, we closed $363 million in new financings including $251 million of loans committed for the development or redevelopment of properties, $60 million of property debt secured by operating properties, and a $52 million preferred equity commitment from an institutional equity partner to partially fund the Upton Place development in Washington, D.C., freeing up Aimco capital for other accretive uses and improving the expected return on Aimco equity. 

•  

We ended the year with $395 million of liquidity, including cash and capacity on our revolving credit facility.  

Our business is organized around defined areas of strategic focus: value add and opportunistic real estate; alternative investments; investment activity; operating properties; balance sheet; and team and culture. 

Value Add, Opportunistic and Alternative Investments 

Development and Redevelopment 

During the year ended December 31, 2021, we invested approximately $215 million in our development and redevelopment projects. 

24 

Construction Activity 

•  

At the major redevelopment of the North Tower of Flamingo Point in Miami Beach, Florida, construction completion is scheduled for the first quarter 2022, as planned, and we expect to reach stabilized occupancy in the third quarter 2022, about six months ahead of plan. 

•  

Upton Place in Upper-Northwest Washington, D.C., is progressing on schedule and on-budget. The project is scheduled for completion in 2024, and NOI stabilization is targeted for 2026. 

•  

The Benson Hotel and Faculty Club on the Anschutz Medical and Life Sciences Campus in Aurora, Colorado, is on budget and on schedule for completion in early 2023, and NOI stabilization in late 2026. 

•  

In Corte Madera, California, development activity on Oak Shore, a community with 16 luxury single family rental homes, each averaging approximately 3,200 square feet, plus eight accessory dwelling units, is underway and on plan with deliveries beginning in 2023, and NOI stabilization occurring in 2025. 

•  

In the Edgewater neighborhood of Miami, Florida, Aimco is completely renovating The Hamilton and expects apartment homes coming back online in 2022 and NOI stabilization targeted for 2024. 

Lease-up Progress 

•  

At 707 Leahy, in Redwood City, California, all apartment homes had been delivered and construction was complete as of 4Q 2020. As of December 31, 2021, the 110-unit property was 97% leased. 

•  

At The Fremont on the Anschutz Medical Campus in Aurora, Colorado, all apartment homes had been delivered and construction was complete as of 4Q 2020. As of December 31, 2021, the 253-unit property was 83% leased. 

•  

At Prism, located in Cambridge, Massachusetts, all apartment homes had been delivered and construction was complete as of 1Q 2021. As of December 31, 2021, the 136-unit property was 96% leased. 

•  

At Flamingo Point North Tower in Miami Beach, Florida, at year end 56% units had been delivered. As of December 31, 2021, 83% of the 366 total units were leased. 

 Alternative Investments 

•  

Parkmerced Mezzanine Investment: On November 26, 2019, we made a five-year, $275.0 million mezzanine loan to a partnership owning Parkmerced Apartments, located in southwest San Francisco (the “Mezzanine Investment”). The loan bears interest at a 10% annual rate, accruing if not paid from property operations. The Separation Agreement provides for AIR to transfer, once third-party consents related to the transfer are received, ownership of the subsidiaries that originated and hold the mezzanine loan, a related equity option to acquire a 30% interest in the partnership owning Parkmerced Apartments and the interest rate option, or swaption, that provides partial protection against future refinancing risk through 2024 to Aimco. At the time of the Separation and as of the date of this report, legal title of these subsidiaries had not yet transferred to Aimco. Until legal title of the subsidiaries is transferred, AIR is obligated to pass payments on such loan to us, and we are obligated to indemnify AIR against any costs and expenses related thereto. We have the risks and rewards of ownership of the Mezzanine Investment and have recognized an asset related to our right to receive the Mezzanine Investment from AIR. In 2021, operations at Parkmerced were stressed due to reduced in-person learning at the neighboring San Francisco State University and lower demand as the region navigates the pandemic and related restrictions. In spite of the challenges faced by the property, the borrower on our mezzanine loan has serviced its first mortgage debt as required and has reported that it expects to do the same in 2022. 

•  

Life Science Developer Investment: In the third quarter of 2020, we made a $50.0 million commitment to purchase common stock of IQHQ, a privately held life sciences real estate development company. In the fourth quarter of 2021, we funded a capital call of $11.2 million bringing our total investment to $35.8 million of the total commitment. Subsequent to year end, we funded our remaining commitment to IQHQ.  

•  

Property Technology Fund Investments: As of December 31, 2021, we have investments valued at $9.6 million in property technology funds consisting of privately held entities that develop technology related to the real estate industry.  

25 

Investment Activity 

Leasehold Agreements 

•  

On January 1, 2021, terms commenced on the leasehold agreements with AIR for 707 Leahy, The Fremont, Prism, and Flamingo Point North Tower. On June 1, 2021, terms commenced on the leasehold agreement with AIR for Oak Shore Land, a 15-acre plot of land in the San Francisco Bay Area on which we began construction of 16 single family rental homes and eight accessory dwelling units in June 2021. 

•  

The combined initial value of leasehold interest, as indicative of the initial fair market values of the leased assets at the time of lease inception, was $475.1 million. The combined annual leasehold payment for these five assets is $25.6 million. 

•  

The lease agreements provide Aimco the right, but not the obligation, to terminate each lease once the leased property is stabilized with AIR then having the option to retain ownership of the land and purchase the improvements from Aimco. Should AIR exercise its option, Aimco would be due the difference between the property’s fair-market value at stabilization and the initial value of the leasehold interest, less a 5% discount. 

Acquisitions 

During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed the following acquisitions: 

•  

We acquired, for $40.0 million, Eldridge Townhomes, a 58-unit townhome community located in Elmhurst, Illinois that Aimco developed between 2018 and 2020. The Eldridge Townhomes are located adjacent to an existing 400-unit Aimco community and the acquisition provides for continued operational efficiencies and improved NOI margins. We plan to hold the Eldridge Townhomes within our portfolio of stabilized operating properties. 

•  

We acquired eight land parcels adjacent to The Hamilton apartment community, located in Miami’s Edgewater neighborhood, for $19.3 million and we began major redevelopment of the existing apartment building at The Hamilton. The scope of our investment will completely renew the waterfront high-rise, which benefits from spacious apartment homes (averaging 1,411 square feet) and an abundance of outdoor and amenity space that was previously underutilized. With these investments, we can now, in total, construct more than 1.1 million square feet of new development in this rapidly growing submarket. 

•  

We purchased seven acres of developable land in Colorado Springs, Colorado for $4.1 million that allows for the construction of up to 119 apartments and townhomes. 

•  

We also acquired The Benson Hotel and Faculty Club (“Benson Hotel”) development property for $6.2 million, net of outstanding construction liabilities of $0.9 million. The development property consists of land and initial construction costs. The project is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2023. 

Joint Venture Transactions 

During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed the following joint venture agreements: 

•  

We entered into a joint venture agreement with Kushner Companies to purchase three undeveloped land parcels located in downtown Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The total contract price for the land is $49.0 million ($25.0 million at Aimco’s 51% share). Current zoning allows for the development of approximately three million square feet of multifamily homes and commercial space. The land purchase closed in January 2022. 

•  

We entered into a joint venture agreement with an institutional equity partner to fund the development of Upton Place in Washington, D.C. with a commitment for $52.2 million of preferred equity financing at an accruing 9.7% rate. Our partner made contributions of $29.4 million in 2021, and will continue to fund the development monthly at 49% of the limited partner equity required to fund the development. 

Operating Property Results 

We own a geographically diversified portfolio of operating properties that produce stable cash flow and serves to balance the risk and highly variable cash flows associated with its portfolio of development and redevelopments and value-add investments. Our operating properties produced solid results for the year ended December 31, 2021.  

26 

Highlights for the year ended December 31, 2021, include: 

•  

Average daily occupancy at our operating properties of 97.9%, a 160-basis point increase compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. 

•  

Revenue, before utility reimbursements, of $136.3 million, up 4.2% year over year.  

•  

Expenses, net of utility reimbursements of $43.5 million, up 4.3% year over year, due primarily to higher real estate taxes and insurance. 

•  

Net operating income of our operating properties increased by 4.1% year over year. 

1001 Brickell Bay Drive, a waterfront office building in Miami, Florida owned as part of a larger assemblage, was 80.2% occupied on December 31, 2021. 

Balance Sheet 

We capitalize our activities through a combination of non-recourse property debt, construction loans, third-party equity, and the recycling of Aimco equity, including retained earnings. We plan to limit the use of recourse leverage, with a strong preference towards non-recourse property-level debt in order to limit risk to the Aimco enterprise. When warranted, we plan to seek equity capital from joint venture partners to improve our cost of capital, further leverage Aimco equity, reduce exposure to a single investment and, in certain cases, for strategic benefits. 

We are highly focused on maintaining ample liquidity. As of December 31, 2021, we had access to $394.6 million, including $233.4 million of cash on hand, $11.2 million of restricted cash, and the capacity to borrow up to $150.0 million on our revolving credit facility. Please refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information regarding our leverage. 

In evaluating our financial condition and operating performance we use non-GAAP measures, including Adjusted EBITDAre, which we believe is useful to investors and creditors as a supplemental measure of our ability to incur and service debt. Our Adjusted EBITDAre for the year ended December 31, 2021, was $81.4 million. Please refer to the Non-GAAP Measures section for further information about the calculation of Adjusted EBITDAre and our leverage ratios. 

Financing Activity 

 During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company entered into a $150.0 million variable-rate non-recourse construction loan collateralized by our leasehold interest and AIR’s fee ownership interest in Flamingo North Tower. The initial term of the loan is three years and bears interest at one month LIBOR plus 360 basis points subject to a minimum all-in per annum interest rate of 3.85%. As of December 31, 2021, we had $130.3 million of principal outstanding. Certain consolidated subsidiaries have indemnified AIR for any losses it incurs as a result of a default on the loan by Aimco. 

Also, during the year ended December 31, 2021, we entered into a $100.7 million variable-rate non-recourse construction loan collateralized by our fee ownership interest in The Hamilton. The initial term of the loan is three years and bears interest at one month LIBOR plus 320 basis points subject to a minimum all-in per annum interest rate of 3.45%. As of December 31, 2021, we had $38.1 million of principal outstanding. 

We also closed on two non-recourse loans for $60.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. The loans have 10-year terms and a weighted average fixed interest rate of 3.09%. Proceeds from the loans were used to fund the acquisition of Eldridge Townhomes and other investment activities. 

If LIBOR ceases to exist during the term of these agreements, the documents associated with these agreements contain language to address a transition to another benchmark rate. It is anticipated LIBOR will be replaced with SOFR, however, if SOFR were to not be available the agreements contain alternate provisions. 

Additionally, we closed a preferred equity financing arrangement with an institutional equity investor for $52.2 million, accruing at a 9.7% interest rate, related to the completion of construction activities at Upton Place. 

Human Capital and Culture 

Our team is our most important asset, and our culture is key to our success. In connection with the Separation, we retained approximately 50 Aimco employees, including: Wes Powell, Chief Executive Officer; Lynn Stanfield, Chief Financial Officer; and Jennifer Johnson, Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel; each of whom has more than 17 years of Aimco experience. In addition, former Aimco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine has been actively engaged throughout the transition period with a particular focus on strategic guidance and new business.  

Aimco benefits from having experienced leaders located in each of four regional hubs where they utilize their local knowledge and connections to source and execute on exceptional investment opportunities. We believe the talent of our team, and our ability to retain that talent through a rewarding and balanced work-life culture, will result in superior outcomes and is key to our long- 

27 

term success. We offer benefits reflecting this belief, including paid time for parental leave, paid time annually to volunteer in local communities, a bonus structure at all levels of the organization, and flexibility in work locations and schedules.  

Our focus on our team and culture is recognized externally, as well. Out of hundreds of participating companies in 2021, we were one of only six recognized as a “Top Workplace” in Colorado for each of the past nine years. We were also recognized as a “Top Workplace” in Washington, D.C., where one of our headquarters is located in nearby Bethesda, Maryland. Additionally, in 2021, the Company was recognized as one of the Denver Area’s Healthiest Employers in 2020. 

Financial Results of Operations 

We have three segments: (i) Development and Redevelopment; (ii) Operating; and (iii) Other. Our Development and Redevelopment segment includes properties that are under construction, in pre-construction, or have not achieved stabilization, as well as land assemblages that are being held for development adjacent to The Hamilton community and other land purchases. The Development and Redevelopment segment also includes our five leased properties; two are under construction and three are operational but have not achieved stabilization. Our Operating segment includes majority owned residential communities that have achieved stabilized level of operations as of January 1, 2020, and maintained it throughout the current year and comparable period. Our Other segment includes our recent Eldridge Townhomes acquisition, stabilized but not owned for a comparable reporting period, and 1001 Brickell Drive, our only office building. 

The following discussion and analysis of the results of our operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements in Item 8. 

Net loss decreased by $0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to 2020. Net income decreased by $5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared 2019.  

Detailed Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2021, Compared to 2020 and the Year Ended December 31, 2020, Compared to 2019 

Property Results 

As of December 31, 2021, our Development and Redevelopment segment included five properties that were under construction, one in planning, and three properties in lease-up. Our Operating segment included 24 communities with 6,067 apartment homes, and our Other segment includes our recent Eldridge Townhomes acquisition, and one office building.  

We use proportionate property net operating income to assess the operating performance of our segments. Proportionate property net operating income is defined as our share of rental and other property revenues, excluding utility reimbursements, less direct property operating expenses, net of utility reimbursements, for consolidated communities. In our consolidated statements of operations, utility reimbursements are included in rental and other property revenues, in accordance with GAAP. Accordingly, the results of operations of our segments discussed below are presented on a proportionate basis and exclude the results of four apartment communities with an aggregate 142 apartment homes that we neither manage nor consolidate, notes receivable, our investment in IQHQ and the Mezzanine Investment.  

We do not include property management costs and casualty gains or losses, reported in consolidated amounts, in our assessment of segment performance. Accordingly, these items are not allocated to our segment results discussed below.  

Please refer to Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further discussion regarding our segments, including a reconciliation of these proportionate amounts to consolidated rental and other property revenues and property operating expenses. 

28 

Proportionate Property Net Operating Income  

The results of our segments for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, as presented below, are based on segment classifications as of December 31, 2021. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, our Development and redevelopment proportionate net operating income increased by $4.0 million due primarily to the delivery and lease up of units at newly constructed or redeveloped apartment communities. 

Operating proportionate property net operating income increased by $3.7 million, or 4.1% for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020. The increase was attributable to a $5.5 million, or 4.2% increase in rental and other property revenues due to higher average revenues of $47 per apartment home, and a 160-basis point increase in occupancy, offset partially by a $1.8 million, or 4.3%, increase in property operating expenses due primarily to higher real estate taxes and insurance. 

Other proportionate property net operating income increased by $1.3 million, or 14.4% for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, due primarily to the acquisition of Eldridge Townhomes in the third quarter of 2021. 

The results of our segments for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, as presented below, are based on segment classification as of December 31, 2021. These amounts have been adjusted retrospectively to reflect a normalized period for comparison purposes. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Development and redevelopment proportionate property net operating income increased by $0.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019, due to the acquisition of The Hamilton in August 2020. 

29 

For the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019, our Operating proportionate property net operating income decreased by $1.0 million, or 1.1% as operations at Aimco properties were impacted by the pandemic and related restrictions. This decrease was attributable to a $0.4 million, or 0.3%, decrease in rental and other property revenues and a $0.6 million, or 1.4%, increase in property operating expenses.  

Other proportionate property net operating income increased by $3.9 million, or 78.3% for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019, due to the acquisition of 1001 Brickell Bay Drive in July 2019. 

Non-Segment Real Estate Operations 

Operating income amounts not attributed to our segments include property management costs, casualty losses, and, if applicable, the results of apartment communities sold or held for sale, reported in consolidated amounts, which we do not allocate to our segments for purposes of evaluating segment performance.  

Depreciation and Amortization 

For the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, depreciation and amortization expense increased by $6.7 million, or 8.7%, due primarily to additional assets being placed into service.  

For the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019, depreciation and amortization expense increased by $13.9 million, or 21.8%, due primarily to depreciation and amortization of assets at 1001 Brickell Bay Drive, acquired in July 2019, and The Hamilton, acquired in August 2020. 

General and Administrative Expenses 

For the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, general and administrative expenses increased by $22.7 million, or 216.7%, due primarily to lower allocation of expenses from Aimco Predecessor in 2020 as compared to the actual costs experienced running the separate business in 2021. 

For the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019, general and administrative expenses increased $3.4 million, due primarily to audit and tax fees incurred as a separate legal entity and increased allocation of expenses from Aimco Predecessor. 

Interest Expense 

For the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, interest expense increased by $25.4 million, or 92.3% primarily due to interest associated with the Notes Payable to AIR entered into in conjunction with the Separation, which Notes Payable were funded on December 15, 2020. 

For the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019, interest expense, which includes the amortization of debt issuance costs, increased $8.9 million due primarily to higher prepayment penalties and outstanding debt balances including the Notes Payable to AIR and debt related to the 2019 acquisition of Brickell. 

Mezzanine Investment Income, Net 

On November 26, 2019, Aimco Predecessor made a five-year, $275.0 million mezzanine loan to a partnership owning Parkmerced Apartments, located in southwest San Francisco. The loan is junior to a $1.5 billion first mortgage position and bears interest at a 10% annual rate, accruing if not paid from property operations. As discussed in Note 2, ownership of the subsidiary that originated and holds the note was retained by AIR, and AIR is obligated to transfer ownership of the subsidiaries that hold this interest to us upon receipt of applicable third-party consent. As of December 31, 2021, the total receivable including accrued and unpaid interest was $337.8 million. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized $30.4 million of income in connection with the mezzanine loan, compared to $27.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 and $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. 

Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Interest Rate Options 

We are required to adjust our interest rate options to fair value on a quarterly basis. As a result of the mark-to-market adjustment, we recorded an unrealized gain in the amount of $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, and we recorded an unrealized gain in the amount of $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. 

30 

Other Income (Expense), Net 

Other income (expense), net, includes costs associated with our risk management activities, partnership administration expenses, valuation changes associated with equity investments, fee income, and certain other non-recurring items. For the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, other income (expense), net increased by $13.4 million due primarily to $8.0 million of fees earned related to specific acquisition and development services during the year ended December 31, 2021, with the remaining differences primarily being valuation changes in our investments in property technology funds consisting of privately held entities that develop technology related to the real estate industry. 

Other income (expense), net, for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019 was relatively flat. 

Income Tax Benefit (Expense)  

Certain of our operations, or a portion thereof, are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRS entities. Additionally, our TRS entities hold investments in real estate.  

Our income tax benefit calculated in accordance with GAAP includes income taxes associated with the income or loss of our TRS entities. Income taxes, as well as changes in valuation allowance and incremental deferred tax items in conjunction with intercompany asset transfers and internal restructurings (if applicable), are included in income tax benefit in our consolidated statements of operations. 

For our TRS entities, deferred income taxes result from temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for United States federal income tax purposes and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the differences reverse. We reduce deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance when we determine it is more likely than not that the assets will not be realized. We assess the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets through a review of the reversals of temporary differences, available tax planning strategies, future taxable income, and considering all available positive and negative evidence. We recognize the tax consequences associated with intercompany transfers between Aimco Operating Partnership and TRS entities when such transactions occur. Please refer to Note 8 for further information about our income taxes.  

Consolidated GAAP income or loss subject to tax consists of pretax income or loss of our taxable entities and gains retained by the REIT. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we had net losses subject to tax of $31.4 million, compared to $25.5 million in 2020.    

For the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized income tax benefit of $13.6 million, compared to a benefit of $10.1 million during 2020. The change is due primarily to income tax benefit associated with internal restructuring, changes to our effective state rate expected to apply to the reversal of our existing deferred items, and higher losses at our TRS entities. 

31 

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Liquidity 

Liquidity is the ability to meet present and future financial obligations. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations and borrowing capacity under our loan agreements.  

As of December 31, 2021, our available liquidity was $394.6 million, which consisted of: 

•  

$233.4 million in cash and cash equivalents;  

•  

$11.2 million of restricted cash, including amounts related to tenant security deposits and escrows held by lenders for capital additions, property taxes, and insurance; and 

•  

$150.0 million of available capacity to borrow under our revolving secured credit facility. 

We have commitments for, and expect to spend, approximately $265.5 million on development and redevelopment projects, with $256.5 million undrawn on our construction loans. As of December 31, 2021, we had a commitment to fund an additional $14.2 million to IQHQ, which we funded subsequent to year end. We have unfunded commitments related to our real estate technology funds of $3.2 million, the timing of which is uncertain. Our principal uses for liquidity include normal operating activities, payments of principal and interest on outstanding debt, capital expenditures, and future investments. Additionally, our third-party property managers may enter into commitments on our behalf to purchase goods or services in connection with the operation of our apartment communities and our office building. Those commitments generally have terms of one year or less and reflect expenditure levels comparable to historical levels.  

We expect to fund any future acquisitions, redevelopment, development, and other capital spending principally with operating cash flows, short-term borrowings, and debt and equity financing. Our near-term business plan does not contemplate the issuance of equity. We believe, based on the information available at this time, that we have sufficient cash on hand and access to additional sources of liquidity to meet our operational needs for 2022 and beyond. 

In the event that our cash and cash equivalents, revolving secured credit facility, and cash provided by operating activities are not sufficient to cover our liquidity needs, we have the means to generate additional liquidity, such as from additional property financing activity and proceeds from apartment community sales. We expect to meet our long-term liquidity requirements, including debt maturities, development and redevelopment spending, and future investment activity, primarily through property financing activity, cash generated from operations, and the recycling of Aimco equity. Our revolving secured credit facility matures in December 2023, prior to consideration of its two one-year extension options. 

Leverage and Capital Resources 

The availability and cost of credit and its related effect on the overall economy may affect our liquidity and future financing activities, both through changes in interest rates and access to financing. Currently, interest rates are low compared to historical levels, and financing is readily available. Any adverse changes in the lending environment could negatively affect our liquidity. We have taken steps to mitigate a portion of our repricing risk. However, if property or development financing options become unavailable, we may consider alternative sources of liquidity, such as reductions in capital spending or apartment community dispositions. 

As of December 31, 2021, approximately 41% of our leverage consisted of property-level, non-recourse, amortizing debt. Approximately 89% of our property-level debt is fixed-rate, which provides a hedge against increases in interest rates, capitalization rates, and inflation. The weighted-average remaining term to maturity of our non-recourse property-level debt was 5.4 years at a weighted-average interest rate of 3.09%.  

While our primary source of leverage is property-level debt, we also have a credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions, Notes Payable to AIR, and construction loans. As of December 31, 2021, we had no outstanding borrowings under our revolving secured credit facility, swingline loan sub-facility and letter of credit sub-facility and had capacity to borrow up to $150.0 million. Under our revolving secured credit facility, we have agreed to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.25x, minimum tangible net worth of $625.0 million, and maximum leverage of 60% as defined in the credit agreement. We are currently in compliance and expect to remain in compliance with these covenants. 

32 

As of December 31, 2021, approximately 45% of our leverage consisted of Notes Payable to AIR, with a fixed interest rate of 5.2% and a term to maturity of 2.1 years, and approximately 14% consisted of our variable-rate non-recourse construction loans. 

33 

On April 15, 2021, we entered into a $150.0 million variable-rate non-recourse construction loan collateralized by our leasehold interest and AIR’s fee ownership interest in Flamingo North Tower. The initial term of the loan is three years and bears interest at one month LIBOR plus 360 basis points subject to a minimum all-in per annum interest rate of 3.85%. As of December 31, 2021, we had $130.3 million of principal outstanding. Certain consolidated subsidiaries have indemnified AIR for any losses it incurs as a result of a default on the loan by Aimco. We recorded $3.8 million of deferred financing costs which will be amortized over the three-year term of the loan. 

On June 21, 2021, we entered into a $100.7 million variable-rate non-recourse construction loan collateralized by our fee ownership interest in The Hamilton. The initial term of the loan is three years and bears interest at one month LIBOR plus 320 basis points subject to a minimum all-in per annum interest rate of 3.45%. As of December 31, 2021, we had $38.1 million of principal outstanding. We recorded $2.3 million of deferred financing costs which will be amortized over the three-year term of the loan. 

Changes in Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Restricted Cash 

The following discussion relates to changes in consolidated cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash due to operating, investing, and financing activities, which are presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows in Item 8 of this report. 

Operating Activities 

For the year ended December 31, 2021, net cash provided by operating activities was $12.6 million. Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by rental rates, occupancy levels, operating expenses related to our portfolio of apartment communities, and general and administrative costs. Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2021, decreased by $35.3 million compared to 2020 due to higher operating and general and administrative expenses.  

Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased by $10.1 million compared to 2019, due primarily to lower net cash contribution from our properties, which were negatively impacted by governmental measures implemented in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and general and administrative and other increases related to the Separation, partially offset by the incremental contribution from properties acquired in 2020 and 2019. 

Investing Activities 

Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021, increased by $142.1 million compared to 2020, due primarily to capital expenditures and cash used in the purchase of The Benson Hotel, the Eldridge Townhomes, and construction costs on our development properties. 

Capital additions totaled $177.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. We generally fund capital additions with available cash and cash provided by operating activities, and construction loans.  

We exclude the amounts of capital spending related to commercial spaces and to apartment communities sold or classified as held for sale at the end of the period from the foregoing measures. We have also excluded from these measures indirect capitalized costs, which are not yet allocated to communities with capital additions, and their related capital spending categories. 

Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased by $283.5 million compared to 2019, due primarily to the $277.6 million payment made by Aimco Predecessor on November 26, 2019, for the Mezzanine Investment. Adding to the decrease in cash used in investing was lower capital expenditures. The lower capital expenditures resulted from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic whereby temporary local restrictions halted construction activity at many apartment communities.  

Financing Activities 

Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021, decreased by $165.4 million compared to 2020, due primarily to the non-recurring $420.9 million investment received from Aimco Predecessor in connection with the Separation. The decrease was partially offset primarily by draws on construction loans, proceeds from non-recourse property loans, and lower principal repayments on non-recourse property debt. 

Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased by $9.9 million compared to 2019, due primarily to the $420.9 million investment from Aimco Predecessor. Partially offsetting this were higher principal payments on our non-recourse property debt, purchase of the interest rate options and deferred financing costs. 

 Non-GAAP Measures 

 We use EBITDAre and Adjusted EBITDAre in managing our business and in evaluating our financial condition and operating performance. These key financial indicators are non-GAAP measures and are defined and described below. We provide  

34 

reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable financial measure computed in accordance with GAAP. 

Earnings Before Interest Expense, Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization for Real Estate (EBITDAre) 

EBITDAre and Adjusted EBITDAre are non-GAAP measures, which we believe are useful to investors, creditors, and rating agencies as a supplemental measure of our ability to incur and service debt because they are recognized measures of performance by the real estate industry and allow for comparison of our credit strength to different companies. EBITDAre and Adjusted EBITDAre should not be considered alternatives to net income (loss) as determined in accordance with GAAP as indicators of liquidity. There can be no assurance that our method of calculating EBITDAre and Adjusted EBITDAre is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts. Nareit defines EBITDAre as net income computed in accordance with GAAP, before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation, and amortization expense, further adjusted for: 

•  

gains and losses on the dispositions of depreciated property; 

•  

impairment write-downs of depreciated property; 

•  

impairment write-downs of investments in unconsolidated partnerships caused by a decrease in the value of the depreciated property in such partnerships; and 

•  

adjustments to reflect Aimco’s share of EBITDAre of investments in unconsolidated entities. 

EBITDAre is defined by Nareit and provides for an additional performance measure independent of capital structure for greater comparability between real estate investment trusts. We define Adjusted EBITDAre as EBITDAre adjusted to exclude the effect of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships and EBITDAre adjustments attributable to noncontrolling interests, and unrealized gain on interest rate options, which we believe allow investors to compare a measure of our earnings before the effects of our capital structure and indebtedness with that of other companies in the real estate industry. Additionally, we exclude interest income recognized on our Mezzanine Investment that was accrued but not paid. 

The reconciliation of net (loss) income to EBITDAre and Adjusted EBITDAre for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, is as follows (in thousands): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

35 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions. We believe that the following critical accounting policies involve our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 

Capitalized Costs 

We capitalize costs, including certain indirect costs, incurred in connection with our capital additions activities, including developments, redevelopments, other tangible apartment community improvements, and replacements of existing community components. Included in these capitalized costs are payroll costs associated with time spent by employees in connection with the planning, execution, and control of all capital addition activities at our communities. We characterize as “indirect costs” an allocation of certain department costs, including payroll, at the area operations and corporate levels that clearly relate to capital addition activities. We also capitalize interest, property taxes, and insurance during periods in which redevelopments are in progress. We commence capitalization of costs, including certain indirect costs, incurred in connection with our capital addition activities, at the point in time when activities necessary to get communities, apartment homes, or leased spaces ready for their intended use begin. These activities include when communities, apartment homes, or leased spaces are undergoing physical construction, as well as when homes or leased spaces are held vacant in advance of planned construction, provided that other activities such as permitting, planning, and design are in progress. We cease the capitalization of costs when the communities or components thereof are substantially complete and ready for their intended use, which is typically when construction has been completed and homes or leased spaces are available for occupancy. We charge costs including ordinary repairs, maintenance, and resident turnover costs to property operating expense, as incurred.  

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 

Real estate and other long-lived assets to be held and used are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, unless the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable. If events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable, we assess its recoverability by comparing the carrying amount to our estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows, excluding interest charges, of the asset. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated aggregate undiscounted future cash flows, we recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset. 

In connection with the Separation, we entered into a sublease of office space within our corporate offices to AIR at then-current market rents. Based on an analysis of the estimated undiscounted cash flows per the terms of the sublease arrangement, we evaluated the recoverability of the assets associated with the subleased space, including, the right-of-use asset, tenant improvements and furniture, fixtures and equipment and concluded the subleased assets were impaired. We recorded an impairment charge of $11.0 million in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020. There were no such impairments for the years ended December 31, 2021, and 2019.  

In connection with the Separation, we entered into a software license agreement with AIR to provide for the use of certain internally developed software at then-current market rates. Based on an analysis of the estimated undiscounted cash flows relative to the carrying value of the internally developed software, we concluded the assets were impaired. Additionally, following an evaluation of the future service potential of certain other internal software that was under development, we ceased development and impaired the associated carrying value. We recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $4.9 million in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020. There were no such impairments for the years ended December 31, 2021, and 2019. 

Acquisitions 

Upon the acquisition of real estate, we determine whether the purchase qualifies as an asset acquisition or, less frequently, meets the definition of an acquisition of a business. We generally recognize the acquisition of apartment communities or interests in partnerships that own communities at our cost, including the related transaction costs, as asset acquisitions. 

We allocate the cost of apartment communities acquired based on the relative fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The fair value of these assets and liabilities is determined using valuation techniques that rely on Level 2 and Level 3 inputs within the fair value framework. We determine the fair value of tangible assets, such as land, buildings, furniture, fixtures and equipment using valuation techniques that consider comparable market transactions, replacement costs and other available information. We determine the fair value of identified intangible assets or liabilities, which typically relate to in-place leases, using valuation techniques that consider the terms of the in-place leases, current market data for comparable leases and our experience in leasing similar communities. 

36 

The intangible assets or liabilities related to in-place leases are comprised of: (a) the value of the above- and below-market leases in-place, measured over the period, including probable lease renewals for below-market leases, that the leases are expected to remain in effect; (b) the estimated unamortized portion of avoided leasing commissions and other costs that ordinarily would be incurred to originate the in-place leases; and (c) the value associated with leased apartment homes during an estimated absorption period, which estimates rental revenue that would not have been earned had leased apartment homes been vacant at the time of acquisition, assuming lease-up periods based on market demand and stabilized occupancy levels. The above- and below-market lease intangibles are amortized to rental revenue over the expected remaining terms of the associated leases, which include reasonably assured renewal periods. Other intangible assets related to in-place leases are amortized to depreciation and amortization over the expected remaining terms of the associated leases. 

Mezzanine Investment 

Pre-Separation, the Mezzanine Investment in the partnership owning Parkmerced Apartments and related swaption were accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and a derivative, respectively. Post-Separation, the legal title to the loan investment and swaption remained with AIR, while we obtained the right to all of the economics. We record our indirect interest in the mezzanine loan investment in the Parkmerced Apartments in “Mezzanine investment” on our consolidated balance sheets, and our income earned is recognized in “Mezzanine investment income, net” in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. We recognize as income the net amounts earned on the mezzanine loan by AIR on its equity investment that are due to be paid to us when collected to the extent the income is supported by the change in AIR’s claim to the to the net assets of the underlying borrower. The income recognized primarily represents the interest accrued under the terms of the underlying mezzanine loan. 

On a periodic basis, we evaluate our Mezzanine investment for impairment. We assess whether there are any indicators, including underlying property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of our investment may be impaired. An investment is considered impaired if we determine that its fair value is less than the net carrying value of the investment on an other-than-temporary basis. Cash flow projections for the investments consider property level factors such as expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors. We consider various qualitative factors to determine if a decrease in the value of our investment is other-than-temporary. These factors include age of the venture, our intent and ability to retain our investment in the entity, financial condition and long-term prospects of the entity and relationships with our partners and banks. If we believe that the decline in the fair value of the investment is temporary, no impairment charge is recorded. If our analysis indicates that there is an other-than temporary impairment related to the investment in a particular real estate venture, the carrying value of the venture will be adjusted to its estimated fair value. 

37 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK