ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Our chief market risks are refunding risk, that is the availability of property debt or other cash sources to refund maturing property debt, including the Notes Payable to AIR, and repricing risk, that is the possibility of increases in base interest rates and credit risk spreads. We use long-dated, fixed-rate, amortizing, non-recourse property debt in order to avoid the refunding and repricing risks of short-term borrowings. We use working capital primarily to fund short-term uses. We make limited use of derivative financial instruments and we do not use them for trading or other speculative purposes. 

Market Risk  

As of December 31, 2021, on a consolidated basis, we had $55.0 million of variable-rate property-level debt outstanding in addition to two variable rate construction loans that totaled $168.4 million. We estimate that a change in 30-day LIBOR of 100 basis points with constant credit risk spreads would reduce or increase interest expense by approximately $2.2 million.  

As of December 31, 2021, we had $244.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, a portion of which bears interest at variable rates. 

We estimate the fair value of debt instruments as described in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. The estimated fair value of total indebtedness, including our Notes Payable to AIR, was approximately $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2021. 

During the year ended December 31, 2020, we paid an upfront premium of $12.1 million for the option to enter into a $1.5 billion notional amount interest rate swap at a future date. This interest rate option, or swaption, provides partial protection against exposure to rising interest rates between now and October 2024. We receive a cash settlement in the future if the prevailing interest rate is higher than the 1.68% strike price on the five-year swap. The amount of a future cash settlement is capped if the prevailing interest rate exceeds 2.78%. Alternatively, if interest rates were to decrease below the specified strike price, we would not receive a cash settlement nor would we have any liability to make a payment. 

During the year ended December 31, 2021, we paid an upfront premium of $5.6 million (including transaction costs) for the option to enter into a $500.0 million notional amount interest rate swap at a future date. This interest rate option, or swaption, provides partial protection against our refinancing interest rate risk relative to our Notes Payable to AIR, and is intended to mitigate interest rate increases between now and January 2024. We receive a cash settlement in the future if the prevailing interest rate is higher than the 3% strike price on the five-year swap. Alternatively, if interest rates were to decrease below the specified strike price, we would not receive a cash settlement nor would we have any liability to make a payment. 

During the year ended December 31, 2021, we also paid an upfront premium of $0.3 million for interest rate caps for the entire amounts on our Flamingo and The Hamilton construction loans. These interest rate caps, provide protection if one month LIBOR exceeds 3% during the initial term of the loans. 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA