PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

The Company 

Aimco, a Maryland corporation incorporated on January 10, 1994, is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (“REIT”). Aimco, through a wholly owned subsidiary, is the general partner and directly is the special limited partner of the Aimco Operating Partnership, a Delaware Limited Partnership. Aimco conducts all of its business and owns all of its assets through the Aimco Operating Partnership. 

On December 15, 2020, Aimco completed the Separation, creating two separate and distinct, publicly traded companies, Aimco and AIR. Additional information regarding the Separation is contained in the Explanatory Note.  

Please refer to Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for discussion regarding our business segments. 

Business Overview 

Our mission is to make real estate investments, primarily focused on the multifamily sector within the continental United States, where outcomes are enhanced through our human capital so that substantial value is created for investors, teammates, and the communities in which we operate. 

Our value proposition includes our national platform organized around four regional and two satellite offices, consisting of a cohesive, talented, and tenured team and our proven investment process; a diversified portfolio, consisting of high-performing in-process value-add investments, a deep and growing pipeline, alternative investments, and stabilized assets; and our capital redeployment plan of reallocating Aimco equity to higher returning investments and prudent recycling of capital. Our primary goal is outsized risk adjusted returns and accelerating growth for Aimco shareholders. 

•  

Platform: We have a talented leadership team with an average Aimco tenure of 10 years and nearly 20 years of diverse real estate industry experience combined with a disciplined and proven investment process. 

•  

Portfolio: We benefit from a deep and growing investment pipeline with $1 billion of development and redevelopment projects currently underway, over $2 billion of future opportunities under Aimco-control and more being explored. We add to this alternative investment strategies and a diversified portfolio of stabilized real estate to provide risk management and produce predictable cash flow. 

•  

Growth Plan: We have more than $500 million of equity targeted for redeployment into high returning activities over the next 4-5 years offering investors a high performing, high return vehicle with expected annualized returns on equity from 12-16% once optimal capital allocation is achieved. 

We are focused on providing superior total-return performance to shareholders, primarily through capital appreciation driven by accretive investment and active portfolio management over multi-year periods. We plan to reinvest earnings to facilitate growth and, therefore, do not presently intend to pay a regular quarterly cash dividend. 

Our financial objectives are to create value and produce superior, project-level, risk-adjusted returns on equity as measured by the investment period Internal Rate of Return (“IRR”) and the project-level Multiple on Invested Capital (“MOIC”). We measure broader performance based on Net Asset value (“NAV”) growth over time. 

Our capital allocation strategy has been designed to leverage our investment platform and optimize risk adjusted returns for our shareholders.  

Overall, we target a growth-oriented capital allocation, primarily weighted toward direct investment in “Value Add” and “Opportunistic” multifamily real estate. 

From time to time, we will allocate a defined portion of our capital into alternative investments including passive debt and equity investments (both direct and indirect). Aimco may also utilize its established platform and existing relationships to generate fees through service offerings. 

We have policies in place that support our strategy, guide our investment allocations, and manage risk, including to hold at all times a sizeable portion of its net equity in a diversified portfolio of “Core” and “Core-Plus” assets and before starting a project, require cash or committed credit necessary for completion. 

2 

Given our stated strategy, it is expected that at any point in time the value-creation process will be ongoing at numerous of our investments. Over time, we expect the Aimco enterprise to produce superior returns on equity on a risk-adjusted basis and it is our plan to do so by: 

•  

Benefiting from a national platform while leveraging local and regional expertise 

We have corporate headquarters in Denver, Colorado and Bethesda, Maryland. Our investment platform is managed by experienced professionals based in four regions: West Coast, Central and Mountain West, Mid-Atlantic and Northeast, and Southeast. By regionalizing this platform, we are able to leverage the in-depth local market knowledge of each regional leader, creating a comparative advantage when sourcing, evaluating, and executing investment opportunities. 

•  

Managing and investing in value-add and opportunistic real estate 

Our dedicated team will source and execute development and redevelopment projects, and various other direct investment strategies, across our national platform. The Aimco Development and Redevelopment portfolio currently includes $1 billion of projects in construction and lease-up, located across five major U.S. markets. In addition, we currently have $2 billion worth of pipeline opportunities under our control and have the opportunity to add to our investment pipeline based on strategic relationships and through sourcing by regional investment teams. Generally, we seek direct investment opportunities in locations where barriers to entry are high, target customers can be clearly defined and where we have a comparative advantage over others in the market. 

•  

Managing and investing in other alternative investments 

Our current allocation to alternative investments includes: our indirect interest mezzanine loan to the Parkmerced partnership which owns 3,165 apartment homes and future development rights in San Francisco, California, and our passive equity investments in IQHQ, Inc. (“IQHQ”), a privately held life sciences real estate development company, and in property technology funds consisting of privately held entities that develop technology related to the real estate industry. 

We expect to allocate a portion of our capital to passive debt and equity investments, both directly and at the entity level. These prove attractive when warranted by risk adjusted returns, when we have special knowledge or expertise relevant to the particular investment or when the opportunity exists for positive asymmetric outcomes whether through strategic partnerships or otherwise. In addition, from time to time, we will use our established platform and existing relationships to generate fees through service offerings to third party real estate investors, owners, and capital allocators.  

•  

Owning a portfolio of stabilized core and core plus real estate  

Our entire portfolio of operating properties includes 29 apartment communities (25 consolidated properties and four unconsolidated properties) located in ten major U.S. markets and with average rents in line with local market averages (generally defined as B class). We also own one commercial office building that is part of an assemblage with an adjacent apartment building. The target composition of our stabilized portfolio will continue to include primarily B multifamily assets, spread across a nationally diversified portfolio and with a bias toward long established residential neighborhoods that rank highly in regard to schools, employment fundamentals and state and regional governance. Core Plus opportunities offer the opportunity for incremental capital investment while maintaining stabilized cashflow to accelerate income growth and improve asset values.  

•  

Maintaining sufficient liquidity and utilizing safe financial leverage  

At all times, we will guard our liquidity by maintaining sufficient cash and committed credit. 

From time-to-time, we will allocate capital to financial assets designed to mitigate risks elsewhere in the Aimco enterprise. Existing examples include our option to acquire an interest rate swap designed to protect against repricing risk on maturing Aimco liabilities and the use of rate caps to provide protection against increases in interest rates on in-place loans. 

We expect to capitalize our activities through a combination of non-recourse property debt, construction loans, third-party equity, and the recycling of Aimco equity, including retained earnings. We plan to limit the use of recourse leverage, with a strong preference towards non-recourse property-level debt in order to limit risk to the Aimco enterprise. When warranted, we plan to seek equity capital from joint venture partners to improve our cost of capital, further leverage Aimco equity, reduce exposure to a single investment and, in certain cases, for strategic benefits. 

Competition 

There are many developers, managers, and owners of apartment real estate and underdeveloped land, as well as REITs, private real estate companies, and investors, that compete with us in acquiring, developing, obtaining financing for, and disposing of apartment communities. This competition affects our ability to realize our real estate development and transactional objectives. 

3 

In addition, our apartment communities compete for residents with other housing alternatives, including other rental apartments and condominiums, and single-family homes that are available for rent, as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. Competitive residential housing, as well as household formation and job creation in a particular area, could adversely affect our ability to lease apartment homes and to increase or maintain rental rates. 

Taxation 

Aimco 

Aimco has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), commencing with our initial taxable year, and intends to continue to operate in such a manner. The Code imposes various requirements related to organizational structure, distribution levels, diversity of stock ownership, and certain restrictions with regard to owned assets and categories of income that must be met in order to continue to qualify as a REIT. If Aimco continues to qualify for taxation as a REIT, Aimco will generally not be subject to United States federal corporate income tax on its taxable income that is currently distributed to stockholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the “double taxation” (at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from an investment in a corporation. 

Certain of our operations, or a portion thereof, are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries, each of which we refer to as a “TRS”. A TRS is a corporate subsidiary that has elected to be a TRS instead of a REIT and, as such, is subject to United States federal corporate income tax.  

Aimco Operating Partnership 

Aimco Operating Partnership is treated as a “pass-through” entity for United States federal income tax purposes and is not subject to United States federal income taxation. Partners in Aimco Operating Partnership, however, are subject to tax on their allocable share of partnership income, gains, losses, deductions, and credits, regardless of whether the partners receive any actual distributions of cash or other property from Aimco Operating Partnership during the taxable year. Generally, the characterization of any particular item is determined by Aimco Operating Partnership rather than at the partner level, and the amount of a partner’s allocable share of such item is governed by the terms of Aimco Operating Partnership’s Partnership Agreement. Aimco Operating Partnership is subject to tax in certain states. 

Regulation 

General 

Apartment development is subject to various laws, ordinances, and regulations, including those concerning entitlement, building, health and safety, site and building design, environment, zoning, sales, and similar matters apply to or affect the real estate development industry.  

Apartment communities and their owners are subject to various laws, ordinances, and regulations, including those related to real estate broker licensing and regulations relating to recreational facilities such as swimming pools, activity centers, and other common areas.  

Changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on communities or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, as well as changes in laws affecting development, construction, and safety requirements, may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, which could adversely affect our net income and cash flows from operating activities.  

In addition, existing rent control laws, as well as future enactment of rent control or rent stabilization laws, or other laws and ordinances regulating multifamily housing, such as eviction moratoriums and the impact of governmental measures implemented in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, may reduce rental revenue or increase operating costs in particular markets. 

Environmental 

Various federal, state, and local laws subject real estate owners or operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal or remediation, of certain potentially hazardous materials that may be present. These materials may include lead-based paint, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, and petroleum-based fuels. Such laws often impose liability without regard to fault or whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such materials. In connection with the ownership of real estate, we could potentially be liable for environmental liabilities or costs associated with our real estate, whether currently owned, acquired in the future, or owned in the past. These and other risks related to environmental matters are described in more detail in Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

4 

Corporate Responsibility 

Our corporate responsibility is an important part of our business. As with all other aspects of our business, our corporate responsibility program focuses on continuous improvement, to the benefit of our stockholders, our residents, our team members and our communities.  

Human Capital and Culture 

Our team is our most important asset, and our culture is key to our success. Our intentional focus on collaborative and productive culture based on respect for others and personal responsibility is reinforced by a preference for promotion from within. We focus on succession planning and talent development to produce a strong, stable team that is the enduring foundation of our success. We offer benefits reinforcing our value of caring for each other, including 16 weeks of paid time for parental leave to new mothers and fathers, a longstanding policy of workplace flexibility for our teammates to attend to personal and family matters during the workweek, office environments focused on natural light and ergonomic office furniture including adjustable height desks, paid time annually to volunteer in local communities, and a bonus structure at all levels of the organization. 

We are responsible for and implement succession planning in all leadership positions, both in the short term and the long term.  

We evaluate team engagement and retention and include those in our goals on which all teammates are compensated. Every team member is surveyed via a third-party, confidential survey on his or her annual anniversary of employment. The teammate engagement score consists of the average of the responses to the questions that comprise the engagement index, on a scale of 1 to 5, for all teammates who complete the survey during the year. Aimco’s overall team engagement score for the 2021 Annual Lifecycle Surveys was 4.21, compared to the target of 4.20.  

As of December 31, 2021, we had 62 full-time team members, approximately 60% performing development or transactional services with the balance managing corporate and area functions, including debt and capital market transactions, legal, finance, accounting, and other support functions. None of our employees are represented by labor unions. 

Our focus on our team and culture is recognized externally, as well. Out of hundreds of participating companies in 2021, we were one of only six recognized as a “Top Workplace” in Colorado for each of the past nine years. We were also recognized as a “Top Workplace” in Washington, D.C., where one of our headquarters is located in nearby Bethesda, Maryland. Additionally, in 2021, the Company was recognized as one of the Denver Area’s Healthiest Employers in 2020. 

Available Information 

Our combined Annual Report on Form 10-K, our combined Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K filed by Aimco or Aimco Operating Partnership, and any amendments to any of those reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable through our website at www.aimco.com. The information contained on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS