PART I

Item 1.BUSINESS

Amgen Inc. (including its subsidiaries, referred to as “Amgen,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is a biotechnology company committed to unlocking the potential of biology for patients suffering from serious illnesses by discovering, developing, manufacturing and delivering innovative human therapeutics. This approach begins by using tools like advanced human genetics to unravel the complexities of disease and understand the fundamentals of human biology.

Amgen focuses on areas of high unmet medical need and leverages its expertise to strive for solutions that improve health outcomes and dramatically improve people’s lives. A biotechnology pioneer, Amgen has grown to be one of the world’s leading independent biotechnology companies, has reached millions of patients around the world and is developing a pipeline of medicines with breakaway potential.

Amgen was incorporated in California in 1980 and became a Delaware corporation in 1987. We have a presence in approximately 100 countries worldwide. Amgen operates in one business segment: human therapeutics.

Significant Developments 

Following is a summary of significant developments affecting our business that have occurred and that we have reported since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. 

Business Development 

Five Prime Therapeutics acquisition

•On April 16, 2021, Amgen completed its acquisition of Five Prime, a public clinical-stage biotechnology company focused on developing immuno-oncology and targeted cancer therapies, for approximately $1.6 billion in cash, net of cash acquired.

•In April 2021, the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation for bemarituzumab as first-line treatment for patients with FGFR2b overexpressing and HER2-negative metastatic and locally advanced gastric and gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma in combination with fluoropyrimidine, leucovorin and oxaliplatin based on an FDA-approved companion diagnostic assay showing at least 10% of tumor cells overexpressing FGFR2b.

KKC collaboration

•We and KKC entered into an agreement, effective July 30, 2021, to jointly develop and commercialize KKC’s potential first-in-class, phase 3-ready anti-OX40 fully human monoclonal antibody in development for the treatment of atopic dermatitis, with potential in other autoimmune diseases.

Teneobio acquisition

•On October 19, 2021, Amgen completed its acquisition of Teneobio, a privately held, clinical-stage biotechnology company developing a new class of biologics called human heavy-chain antibodies, which are single-chain antibodies composed of the human heavy-chain domain, for $900 million as well as future contingent milestone payments potentially worth up to an additional $1.6 billion upon the achievement of certain developmental and regulatory events.

Products/Pipeline

Inflammation

Otezla

•In December 2021, we announced that the FDA had approved the expanded indication for Otezla for the treatment of adult patients with plaque psoriasis, who are candidates for phototherapy or systemic therapy, across all severities.

TEZSPIRE

•In December 2021, we and AstraZeneca announced that the FDA had approved TEZSPIRE for the add-on maintenance treatment of adult and pediatric patients aged 12 years and older with severe asthma.

1

Oncology/Hematology

LUMAKRAS/LUMYKRAS

•In May 2021, we announced that the FDA had approved LUMAKRAS for the treatment of adult patients with KRAS G12C–mutated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC, as determined by an FDA-approved test, who have received at least one prior systemic therapy. LUMAKRAS received accelerated approval based on ORR and DoR. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial or trials.

•In January 2022, we announced that the EC had granted conditional marketing authorization for LUMYKRAS for the treatment of adults with advanced NSCLC with KRAS G12C mutation and who have progressed after at least one prior line of systemic therapy. We also announced that LUMAKRAS had been approved in Japan for the treatment of KRAS G12C-mutated positive, unresectable, advanced and/or recurrent NSCLC that has progressed after systemic anticancer therapy.

KYPROLIS

•In December 2021, we announced that the FDA had approved the expansion of the KYPROLIS prescribing information to include its use in combination with DARZALEX FASPRO (daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj) and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received one to three lines of therapy.

Operations

New manufacturing facilities

We announced plans to expand our United States–based manufacturing footprint.

•In August 2021, we announced plans to build a drug substance plant in North Carolina that will increase our manufacturing network capacity to reliably supply more medicines for patients.

•In November 2021, we broke ground to build an advanced assembly and packaging plant in Ohio. The new facility will assemble and package vials and syringes to support the growing demand for our medicines.

We expect that both of these facilities will be built faster and at lower cost than traditional plants. Once completed, both will also utilize cutting-edge technologies to be more efficient and environmentally friendly than traditional plants.

COVID-19 pandemic

A novel strain of coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2, or severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, causing COVID-19) was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11, 2020. Since the onset of the pandemic in 2020, we have been closely monitoring the pandemic’s effects on our global operations. To date, we have not experienced disruptions to or shortages of our supply of medicines. We continue to take appropriate steps to minimize risks to our employees. Employee access to company facilities has been in accordance with applicable government health and safety protocols and guidance issued in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic has shifted how we work as an organization and in the fourth quarter of 2021, we enabled our U.S. based workforce to return to the workplace for work that benefits from face-to-face interaction, while maintaining appropriate safety measures to ensure staff well-being. For further discussion, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview, Selected Financial Information and Results of Operations. For a discussion of the risks presented by the COVID-19 pandemic to our results, see Risk Factors in Item 1A.

2

Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products

The largest concentration of our sales and marketing forces is based in the United States and Europe. In recent years, we have expanded the commercialization and marketing of our products into other geographic territories, including China and Japan and other parts of Asia, the Middle East and Latin America. This expansion has occurred, and is expected to continue to occur, by establishing our own affiliates, by acquiring existing third-party businesses or product rights or by collaborating with third parties. See Business Relationships for our significant alliances. Whether we use our own sales and marketing forces or a third party’s services varies across these markets. Such use typically depends on several factors, including the nature of entry into the new market, the size of an opportunity and operational capabilities. Together with our collaborators, we market our products to healthcare providers, including physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies.

In the United States, substantially all of our sales are to pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, which are the principal means of distributing our products to healthcare providers. We also market certain products through direct-to-consumer channels, including print, television and online media. For further discussion, see Government Regulation—Regulation in the United States—Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion. Outside the United States, we sell principally to healthcare providers and/or pharmaceutical wholesale distributors depending on the distribution practice in each country. In the Asia Pacific region, we also sell our products in partnership with other companies, including BeiGene, Daiichi Sankyo, KKC and Takeda.

Our product sales to three large wholesalers, McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., each individually accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years 2021, 2020 and 2019. On a combined basis, these wholesalers accounted for 82%, 83% and 81% of worldwide gross revenues for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We monitor the financial condition of our larger customers and limit our credit exposure by setting credit limits and, in certain circumstances, by requiring letters of credit or obtaining credit insurance.

3

Our products are marketed around the world, with the United States as our largest market. The following chart shows our product sales by principal product, and the table below (dollar amounts in millions) shows product sales by geography for the years 2021, 2020 and 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

4

ENBREL

We market ENBREL, a tumor necrosis factor blocker, in the United States and Canada. ENBREL was launched in 1998 and is used primarily in indications for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis, patients with chronic moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy and patients with active psoriatic arthritis.

Prolia

We market Prolia in many countries around the world. Prolia contains the same active ingredient as XGEVA but is approved for different indications, patient populations, doses and frequencies of administration. Prolia was launched in the United States and Europe in 2010. In the United States, it is used primarily in the indication for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk of fracture, defined as a history of osteoporotic fracture, or multiple risk factors for fracture; or in patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy. In Europe, Prolia is used primarily for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at increased risk of fracture.

Otezla

We market Otezla, a small molecule that inhibits PDE4, in many countries around the world. Otezla was acquired from BMS in November 2019 after their acquisition of Celgene. Otezla is an oral therapy approved for the treatment of adult patients with plaque psoriasis across all severities for whom phototherapy or systemic therapy is appropriate, patients with active psoriatic arthritis and patients with oral ulcers associated with Behçet’s disease. In Europe, Otezla is approved for second-line use in the treatment of psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis and for patients with oral ulcers associated with Behçet’s disease who are candidates for systemic therapy. 

XGEVA

We market XGEVA in many countries around the world. XGEVA was launched in 2010 and is used primarily in the indication for prevention of SREs (pathological fracture, radiation to bone, spinal cord compression or surgery to bone) in patients with bone metastases from solid tumors and multiple myeloma.

Neulasta

We market Neulasta, a pegylated protein based on the filgrastim molecule, primarily in the United States and Europe. Neulasta was launched in 2002 and is used primarily in the indication to help reduce the chance of infection due to a low white blood cell count in patients with certain types of cancer (nonmyeloid) who receive anticancer medicines (chemotherapy) that can cause fever and a low blood cell count. In 2015, the Neulasta Onpro kit became available in the United States. The Neulasta Onpro kit provides physicians the opportunity to initiate administration of Neulasta on the same day as chemotherapy, with drug delivery of the recommended dose of Neulasta at home the day after chemotherapy, thereby saving the patient a trip back to the doctor.

Aranesp

We market Aranesp primarily in the United States and Europe. It was launched in 2001 and is indicated to treat a lower-than-normal number of red blood cells (anemia) caused by CKD in both patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis. Aranesp is also indicated for the treatment of anemia due to concomitant myelosuppressive chemotherapy in certain patients with nonmyeloid malignancies and when chemotherapy will be used for at least two months after starting Aranesp.

Repatha

We market Repatha, a PCSK9 inhibitor, in many countries around the world. Repatha was launched in 2015 and is indicated to reduce the risks of myocardial infarction, stroke and coronary revascularization in adults with established CV disease. Repatha is also indicated to reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including HeFH; in pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with HeFH; and in adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with HoFH.

KYPROLIS

We market KYPROLIS primarily in the United States and Europe. KYPROLIS was launched in 2012 and is indicated in combination with (i) dexamethasone, (ii) lenalidomide plus dexamethasone and (iii) DARZALEX plus dexamethasone for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received one to three prior lines of therapy. It is also approved as a single agent for patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received one or more previous therapies.

5

Nplate

We market Nplate in many countries around the world. Nplate was launched in 2008 and is indicated to treat thrombocytopenia in patients with chronic ITP who have had an insufficient response to corticosteroids, immunoglobulins or splenectomy.

Other Marketed Products

We also market a number of other products in various markets worldwide, including MVASI, Vectibix, KANJINTI, EVENITY, EPOGEN, BLINCYTO, AMGEVITA, Aimovig, Parsabiv, NEUPOGEN, LUMAKRAS/LUMYKRAS, Sensipar/Mimpara, AVSOLA, RIABNI and TEZSPIRE. 

Patents

The following table lists our outstanding material patents for the indicated product by territory, general subject matter and latest expiry date. Certain of the European patents are subjects of supplemental protection certificates that provide additional protection for the products in certain European countries beyond the dates listed in the table. See footnotes to the patent table below.

One or more patents with the same or earlier expiry dates may fall under the same general subject matter and are not listed separately.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)A European patent with this subject matter may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe, and the length of any such extension will vary by country. For example, supplementary protection certificates have been issued related to the indicated products for patents in at least the following countries:

•denosumab — France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2025

•apremilast — Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom expiring in 2028

•carfilzomib — France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom expiring in 2030

•evolocumab — France, Spain and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2030

•romiplostim — France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2024

•panitumumab — France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2022

•romosozumab — France, Italy and Spain, expiring in 2031

•blinatumomab — France, Italy and Spain, expiring in 2029

•erenumab — France, Italy and Spain, expiring in 2033

•etelcalcetide — France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2031

(2)U.S. Patent No. 10,092,541 was held invalid by the New Jersey District Court. We disagree with the court’s holding and we are in the process of appealing this judgment. See Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Amgen Inc. vs. Sandoz Inc., et al.

(3)A patent with this subject matter may be entitled to patent term extension in the United States.

7

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive environment. A number of our marketed products are indicated for disease areas in which other products or treatments are currently available or are being pursued by our competitors through R&D activities. Additionally, some competitor-marketed products target the same genetic pathways as our recently launched marketed products or are currently in development. This competition could impact the pricing and market share of our products. We continue to pursue ways of increasing the value of our medicines through innovations during their life cycles, which can include expanding the disease areas for which our products are indicated and finding new methods to make the delivery of our medicines easier and less costly. Such activities can offer important opportunities for differentiation. For example, we market the Neulasta Onpro kit, which provides physicians the opportunity to initiate administration of the recommended dose of Neulasta on the same day as chemotherapy, with drug delivery at home the day after chemotherapy, thereby saving the patient a trip back to the doctor. We plan to continue pursuing innovation efforts to strengthen our competitive position. Such position may be based on, among other things, safety, efficacy, reliability, availability, patient convenience, delivery devices, price, reimbursement, access to and timing of market entry and patent position and expiration.

Certain of the existing patents on our principal products have expired, and we face new and increasing competition, including from biosimilars and generics. A biosimilar is another version of a biological product for which marketing approval is sought or has been obtained based on a demonstration that it is “highly similar” to the original reference product. We have experienced adverse effects from biosimilar competition on our originator product sales. Companies have launched biosimilar versions of EPOGEN, NEUPOGEN and Neulasta and have approved biosimilars for ENBREL. Once multiple biosimilar versions of one of our originator products have launched, competition has intensified rapidly, resulting in greater net price declines for both reference and biosimilar products, and a greater effect on product sales. See also Government Regulation—Regulation in the United States—Approval of Biosimilars. Although competitor biosimilars compete on price, we believe many patients, providers and payers will continue to place high value on the reputation, supply reliability and safety of our products. As additional biosimilar competitors come to market, we will continue to leverage our global experience to distinguish against both branded and biosimilar competition.

We also have our own biosimilar products both in the United States and outside of U.S. markets that are competing against branded and biosimilar versions of our competitors’ products. In 2019, Amgen launched MVASI, a biosimilar to Avastin, and KANJINTI, a biosimilar to Herceptin; and in 2018, Amgen launched AMGEVITA, a biosimilar to Humira in ex-U.S. markets. We have also received FDA approval of AMJEVITA, a biosimilar to Humira for the U.S. market, and plan to launch in the United States in January 2023. In 2020, we launched AVSOLA, a biosimilar to Remicade; and in January 2021, we launched RIABNI, a biosimilar to Rituxan. We expect additional biosimilar competition against both our branded and biosimilar products in the future across markets.

Although most of our products are biologics, some are small molecule products. Because the FDA approval process permits generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product rather than having to conduct their own costly and time-consuming clinical trials, generic manufacturers can often develop and market their competing versions of our small molecule products at much lower prices. For example, following loss of exclusivity of patents directed to cinacalcet, the active ingredient in our small molecule calcimimetic Sensipar, we lost a significant share of the market and corresponding revenues in a very short period of time. See Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The introduction of new products, the development of new processes or technologies by competitors or the emergence of new information about existing products may result in (i) increased competition for our marketed products, even for those protected by patents and/or (ii) reductions in the prices we receive from selling our products. In addition, the development of new treatment options or standards of care may reduce the use of our products or may limit the utility and application of ongoing clinical trials of our product candidates. (As used in this document, the term clinical trials may include prospective clinical trials, observational studies, registries and other studies.) See Item 1A. Risk Factors—Our products face substantial competition and our product candidates are also likely to face substantial competition and Item 1A. Risk Factors—We currently face competition from biosimilars and expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars and generics in the future.

8

The following table reflects our significant competitors and is not exhaustive.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

† Approved biosimilars available in Europe and Canada.

(1)A subsidiary of J&J.

(2)Dermatology only.

(3)Other biosimilars under regulatory review in the United States and Europe.

(4)PROCRIT competes with Aranesp in supportive cancer care and predialysis settings.

(5)KYPROLIS is facing increased competition from several recently approved products.

(6)A subsidiary of Takeda.

(7)A subsidiary of BMS.

Reimbursement 

Sales of our principal products are dependent on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers. In many markets around the world, these payers, including government health systems, private health insurers and other organizations, remain focused on reducing the cost of healthcare; and their efforts have intensified as a result of rising healthcare costs, economic pressures and broader challenges generated by the COVID-19 pandemic. Drugs remain heavily scrutinized for cost containment. As a result, payers are becoming more restrictive regarding the use of biopharmaceutical products and are scrutinizing the prices of these products while requiring a higher level of clinical evidence to support the benefits such products bring to patients and the broader healthcare system. These pressures become intensified when our products become subject to competition, including from biosimilars.

9

In the United States, healthcare providers and other entities such as pharmacies and PBMs are reimbursed for covered services and products they deliver through both private-payer and government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. We provide negotiated rebates to healthcare providers, private payers, government payers and PBMs. In addition, we are required to (i) provide rebates or discounts on our products that are reimbursed through certain government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, and (ii) provide discounts to qualifying healthcare providers under the federal 340B Drug Pricing Program. 

Both private and some government payers use formularies to manage access to and utilization of drugs. A drug’s inclusion and favorable positioning on a formulary are essential to ensure patients have access to a particular drug. Even when access is available, some patients abandon their prescriptions for economic reasons. Payers continue to institute cost reduction and containment measures that lower drug utilization and/or spending altogether and/or shift a greater portion of the costs to patients. Such measures include, but are not limited to, more-limited benefit plan designs, higher patient co-pays or coinsurance obligations, limitations on patients’ use of commercial manufacturer co-pay payment assistance programs (including through co-pay accumulator adjustment or maximization programs), stricter utilization management criteria before a patient may get access to a drug, higher-tier formulary placement that increases the level of patient out-of-pocket costs and formulary exclusion, which effectively encourages patients and providers to seek alternative treatments or pay 100% of the cost of a drug. The use of such measures by PBMs and insurers has continued to intensify and has thereby limited Amgen product usage and sales. Furthermore, during the past few years, many PBMs and insurers have consolidated, resulting in a smaller number of PBMs and insurers overseeing a large portion of total covered lives in the United States. As a result, PBMs and insurers have greater market power and negotiating leverage to mandate stricter utilization criteria and/or exclude drugs from their formularies in favor of competitor drugs or alternative treatments. In highly competitive treatment markets such as the markets for ENBREL, Otezla, Repatha and Aimovig, PBMs are also able to exert negotiating leverage by requiring incremental rebates from manufacturers in order for them to gain and/or maintain their formulary position.

In addition to market actions taken by private and government payers in the United States, policy makers in both of the major U.S. political parties are pursuing policies to lower drug costs. Potential policies cover a wide range of areas, including allowing the importation of drugs from other countries; instituting IRP schemes, which would set the prices of certain drugs based on those available in other countries; implementing policies that in effect would require manufacturers to accept government-set prices for certain drugs, with price ceilings based on a domestic reference-pricing scheme; redesigning the Medicare Part D benefit so as to establish a cap on patient out-of-pocket costs, paired with new requirements that manufacturers cover a share of the costs of Part D drugs; stipulating penalties if drug price benchmarks rise faster than inflation; increasing transparency in drug pricing; and using third-party value assessments to determine drug prices. Examples of such policies include, but are not limited to, the previous Administration’s November 2020 interim final rule, which attempts to institute an MFN IRP model in Medicare Part B and a final rule instituting rebate reform in Medicare Part D. Both of the resulting rules are being challenged in court and have not yet been implemented. Further, although CMS withdrew the MFN IRP, policy makers continue to express strong interest in policies to address drug pricing. See Item 1A. Risk Factors—Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability. The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act signed into law on November 15, 2021, delays implementation of the rebate reform rule until 2026 and requires manufacturers of certain Part B–covered drugs packaged in single-use containers to give refunds to the government starting in 2023 for discarded amounts. Although the direction of drug-pricing-policy reforms remains unclear at this time, Congress is continuing to consider prescription-drug-pricing reforms, including legislative proposals for a number of the concepts discussed above (including a full repeal of the prior Administration’s Part D rebate reform rule).

In many countries other than the United States, government-sponsored healthcare systems are the primary payers for drugs and biologics. With increasing budgetary constraints and/or difficulty in understanding the value of medicines, governments and payers in many countries are applying a variety of measures to exert downward price pressure. These measures can include mandatory price controls, price referencing, therapeutic-reference pricing, increases in mandates, incentives for generic substitution and biosimilar usage and government-mandated price cuts. In this regard, many countries have health technology assessment organizations that use formal economic metrics such as cost-effectiveness to determine prices, coverage and reimbursement of new therapies; and these organizations are expanding in both established and emerging markets. Many countries also limit coverage to populations narrower than those specified on our product labels or impose volume caps to limit utilization. We expect that countries will continue taking aggressive actions to seek to reduce expenditures on drugs and biologics. Similarly, fiscal constraints may also affect the extent to which countries are willing to approve new and innovative therapies and/or allow access to new technologies. The EU is currently undergoing a review and possible revision of its pharmaceutical legislation, scheduled to conclude at the end 2022. There is a risk that this review will lead to proposals that may reduce intellectual property protection for new products, as well as change the reimbursement and regulatory landscape in ways that are difficult to predict at this point.

10

The dynamics and developments discussed above create pressures on the pricing and potential usage of our products and on the industry. Given the diverse interests in play between payers, biopharmaceutical manufacturers, policy makers, healthcare providers and independent organizations, if and whether the parties involved can achieve alignment on the matters discussed above remain unclear, and the outcome of any such alignment is difficult to predict. We remain focused on pricing our products responsibly and delivering breakthrough treatments for unmet medical needs. Amgen is committed to working with the entire healthcare community to ensure continued innovation and to facilitate patient access to needed medicines. We do this by:

•investing billions of dollars annually in R&D;

•pricing our medicines to reflect the value they provide;

•developing more affordable therapeutic choices in the form of high-quality and reliably supplied biosimilars;

•partnering with payers to share risk and accountability for health outcomes;

•providing patient support and education programs; 

•helping patients in financial need access our medicines; and

•working with policy makers, patients and other stakeholders to establish a sustainable healthcare system with access to affordable care and in which patients and their healthcare professionals are the primary decision makers.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors—Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability and Item 1A. Risk Factors—Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products.

Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials

Manufacturing

We believe we are a leader in the manufacture of biologics and that our manufacturing capabilities represent a competitive advantage. The products we manufacture consist of both biologics and small molecule drugs. The majority of our products are biologics that are produced in living cells and that are inherently complex due to naturally occurring molecular variations. Highly specialized knowledge and extensive process and product characterization are required to transform laboratory-scale processes into reproducible commercial manufacturing processes. Further, our expertise in the manufacture of biologics positions us well for leadership in the global biosimilars market. For additional information regarding manufacturing facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

We have been innovating our manufacturing facilities designed to extend our manufacturing advantage by optimizing our manufacturing network and/or by mitigating risks while continuing to ensure adequate supply of our products. For example, our licensed next-generation biomanufacturing plant operating in Singapore, and our recently FDA approved facility in West Greenwich, Rhode Island, incorporate multiple innovative technologies into a single facility. Next-generation biomanufacturing plants require smaller manufacturing footprints and offer greater environmental benefits, including reduced consumption of water and energy and lower levels of carbon emissions. Within such plants, the equipment is portable and smaller, which provides greater flexibility and speed in the manufacture of different medicines simultaneously. This enables Amgen to respond to changing demands for its medicines with increased agility. The Singapore site also has a plant that has been approved by several agencies, including the FDA and EMA, to produce small molecule drugs for commercial manufacturing.

Our internal manufacturing network has commercial production capabilities for bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill, finish, tableting and device assembly. These activities are performed within the United States and its territories in our Puerto Rico, Rhode Island and California facilities as well as internationally in our Ireland, Netherlands and Singapore facilities. In addition, we use third-party contract manufacturers to supplement the capacity or capability of our commercial manufacturing network.

To support our clinical trials, we manufacture product candidates primarily at our California facilities. We also use third-party contract manufacturers to supplement the capacity or capability of our overall clinical manufacturing network.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the factors that could adversely impact our manufacturing operations and the global supply of our products. 

11

Distribution

We operate distribution centers in Puerto Rico, Kentucky, California and the Netherlands for worldwide distribution of the majority of our commercial and clinical products. We also use third-party distributors to supplement distribution of our products worldwide.

Other

In addition to the manufacturing and distribution activities noted above, each of our manufacturing locations includes key manufacturing support functions such as quality control, process development, engineering, procurement, production scheduling and warehousing. Certain of those manufacturing and distribution activities are highly regulated by the FDA as well as international regulatory agencies. See Government Regulation—Regulation in the United States—Regulation of Manufacturing Standards.

Manufacturing Initiatives

As discussed above, we have been expanding capacity and advancing new innovations with multiple ongoing projects.

Our next-generation biomanufacturing plant at our West Greenwich, Rhode Island, campus, the first of its kind in the United States, received FDA approval in January 2022. This plant expands our capacity to manufacture certain products for U.S. and global markets, as we receive regulatory approval in those markets.

We initiated projects in 2019 to expand our clinical and commercial manufacturing capabilities in Thousand Oaks, California, which we have completed.

In August 2021, we initiated a project to build a new multi-product drug substance manufacturing facility in Holly Springs, North Carolina. The new plant will support both traditional stainless steel-fed batch manufacturing and next-generation single-use technologies, allowing flexibility in the production of multiple products in one plant.

In November 2021, we broke ground for our newest biomanufacturing plant located in New Albany, Ohio. This final product assembly and packaging plant will support the growing demand for Amgen’s medicines in the United States and will use state-of-the-art technologies.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors—Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.

Raw Materials and Medical Devices

Certain raw materials, medical devices (including companion diagnostics) and components necessary for the commercial and/or clinical manufacturing of our products are provided by and are the proprietary products of unaffiliated third-party suppliers, certain of which may be our only sources for such materials. We currently attempt to manage the risk associated with such suppliers by means of inventory management, relationship management and evaluation of alternative sources when feasible. We also monitor the financial condition of certain suppliers and their ability to supply our needs. See Item 1A. Risk Factors—We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components.

We perform various procedures to help authenticate the sources of raw materials, including intermediary materials used in the manufacture of our products; the procedures include verification of country of origin and are incorporated into the manufacturing processes we and our third-party contract manufacturers perform.

To better ensure supply, Amgen has a risk mitigation strategy that uses a combination of methods, including multiple sources or backup inventory of critical raw materials. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic and as part of our ongoing business continuity efforts, we continue to closely monitor our inventory levels and have taken additional measures to mitigate against raw material supply interruption. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the factors that could adversely impact our manufacturing operations and the global supply of our products.

Government Regulation

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor in the production and marketing of our products and our ongoing R&D activities. To clinically test, manufacture and market products for therapeutic use, we must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies. Compliance with these standards is complex, and failure to comply with any of these standards can result in significant implications. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of factors, including global regulatory implications, that can adversely impact our development and marketing of commercial products.

12

Regulation in the United States

In the United States, the Public Health Service Act; the FDCA; and the regulations promulgated thereunder as well as other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the production, research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising, promotion and distribution of our products in addition to the reporting of certain payments and other transfers of value to healthcare professionals and teaching hospitals.

Clinical Development and Product Approval. Drug development in our industry is complex, challenging and risky, and failure rates are high. Product development cycles are typically very long—approximately 10 to 15 years from discovery to market. A potential new medicine must undergo many years of preclinical and clinical testing to establish its safety and efficacy for use in humans at appropriate dosing levels and with an acceptable risk–benefit profile. We continue to work toward reducing cycle times by applying our expertise in human genetics and innovation in technology, clinical trials and real-world evidence.

After laboratory analysis and preclinical testing in animals, we file an IND with the FDA to begin human testing. Typically, we undertake an FDA-designated three-phase human clinical testing program.

•In phase 1, we conduct small clinical trials to investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of our product candidates in a small number of human subjects.

•In phase 2, we conduct clinical trials to investigate side-effect profiles and the efficacy of our product candidates in a patient population larger than phase 1 but still relatively small, who have the disease or condition under study.

•In phase 3, we conduct clinical trials to investigate the short- and long-term safety and efficacy of our product candidates, compared to commonly used treatments, in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.

The FDA monitors the progress of each trial conducted under an IND and may, at its discretion, reevaluate, alter, suspend or terminate the testing based on data accumulated to that point and the FDA’s risk–benefit assessment with regard to the patients enrolled in the trial. The results of preclinical and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA in the form of either a BLA for biologic products or a New Drug Application for small molecule products. We are not permitted to market or promote a new product until the FDA has approved our marketing application.

Approval of Biosimilars. The ACA authorized the FDA to approve biosimilars via a separate, abbreviated pathway. The pathway allows sponsors of a biosimilar to seek and obtain regulatory approval based in part on the nonclinical-trial and clinical-trial data of an originator product to which the biosimilar has been demonstrated to be “highly similar” and to have no clinically meaningful differences with regard to safety, purity and potency. The relevance of demonstrating “similarity” is that in many cases, biosimilars can be brought to market without conducting the full suite of clinical trials typically required of originators, because risk–benefit has previously been established. To preserve incentives for future innovation, the law establishes a period of exclusivity for originators’ products, which in general prohibits biosimilars from gaining FDA approval based in part on reliance on or reference to the originator’s data in their application to the FDA for 12 years after initial FDA approval of the originator product. The law does not change the duration of patents granted on biologic products. As part of the implementation of the abbreviated approval pathway for biosimilars, the FDA released a number of guidance documents, some of which remain in draft form.

Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion. The FDA regulates the marketing and promotion of drug products. Our product promotions for approved product indications must comply with the statutory standards of the FDCA and the FDA’s implemented regulations and guidance. The FDA’s review of marketing and promotional activities encompasses but is not limited to direct-to-consumer advertising, healthcare-provider-directed advertising and promotion, sales representative communications to healthcare professionals, promotional programming and promotional activities involving electronic media. The FDA may also review industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities that make representations regarding product safety or efficacy in a promotional context. The FDA may take enforcement action against a company for promoting unapproved uses of a product or for other violations of the FDA’s advertising and labeling laws and regulations. Enforcement action may include product seizures, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties or regulatory letters, which may require corrective advertising or other corrective communications to healthcare professionals. Failure to comply with the FDA’s regulations also can result in adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of company activities by the U.S. Congress or other legislators. Additionally, as described below, such failure may lead to additional liability under U.S. healthcare fraud and abuse laws.

13

Regulation of Manufacturing Standards. The FDA regulates and inspects the equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes used in the manufacturing and testing of products prior to granting approval to market products. If after receiving approval from the FDA we make a material change in manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional regulatory review may be required. We also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations and product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA conducts regular, periodic visits to reinspect our equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes following an initial approval.

Regulation of Combination Products. Combination products are defined by the FDA as products composed of two or more regulated components (e.g., a biologic and/or drug and a device). Biologics/drugs and devices each have their own regulatory requirements, and combination products may have additional requirements. A number of our marketed products meet this definition and are regulated under this framework, and we expect that a number of our pipeline product candidates will be evaluated for regulatory approval under this framework as well.

Regulation outside the United States

In EU countries as well as in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Canada, Australia and Japan, regulatory requirements and approval processes are similar in principle to those in the United States.

In the EU, there are currently two potential tracks for seeking marketing approval for a product not authorized in any EU member state: a decentralized procedure and a centralized procedure. In the decentralized procedure, identical applications for marketing authorization are submitted simultaneously to the national regulatory agencies. Regulatory review is led by one member state (the reference-member state), and its assessment—based on safety, quality and efficacy—is reviewed and approved (assuming there are no concerns that the product poses a serious risk to public health) by the other member states from which the applicant is seeking approval (the concerned-member states). The decentralized procedure leads to a series of single national approvals in all relevant countries. In the centralized procedure, which is required of all products derived from biotechnology, a company submits a single Marketing Authorisation Application to the EMA, which conducts an evaluation of the dossier, drawing upon its scientific resources across Europe. If the drug product is proven to fulfill requirements for quality, safety and efficacy, the EMA’s CHMP adopts a positive opinion, which is transmitted to the EC for final decision on granting of the marketing authorization. Even though the EC generally follows the CHMP’s opinion, it is not bound to do so. Subsequent commercialization is enabled by country-by-country reimbursement approval.

In the EU, biosimilars are approved under a specialized pathway of the centralized procedure. As with the U.S. pathway, an applicant seeks and obtains regulatory approval for a biosimilar once the data exclusivity period for the original reference product has expired, relying in part on the data submitted for the originator product together with data evidencing that the biosimilar is “highly similar” with regard to quality, safety and efficacy to the original reference product authorized in the European Economic Area.

Other countries such as Russia, Turkey and those in Latin America and the Middle East have review processes and data requirements similar to those of the EU and in some cases can rely on prior marketing approval from U.S. or EU regulatory authorities. The regulatory process in these countries may include manufacturing/testing facility inspections, testing of drug product upon importation and other domestic requirements.

In Asia Pacific, a number of countries such as China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan may require local clinical-trial data for bridging purposes as part of the drug registration process in addition to global clinical trials, which can add to overall drug development and registration timelines. In most of the Asian markets, registration timelines depend on marketing approval in the United States or the EU. In some markets in Asia, such as China, Indonesia and Thailand, regulatory timelines can be less predictable. The regulatory process may also include manufacturing/testing facility inspections, testing of drug product upon importation and other domestic requirements. Countries such as Australia and Japan have more-mature systems that would allow for submissions under more-competitive time frames. With regard to biosimilars, several of these countries have pathways to register biosimilars (e.g., Australia, India, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan), and biosimilar products are already present on the markets (e.g., Australia and South Korea).

In some countries, such as Japan and those in the EU, medical devices may be subject to regulatory regimes whereby manufacturers must establish that their medical devices conform to essential requirements set out in the law for the particular device category. For example, in the EU, with limited exceptions, medical devices placed on the market must bear the Conformité Européenne marking to indicate their conformity with legal requirements.

14

Postapproval Phase

After approval, we continue to monitor adverse events and product complaints reported following the use of our products through routine postmarketing surveillance and studies when applicable. We report such events to the appropriate regulatory agencies as required by local regulations for individual cases and aggregate reports. We proactively monitor (according to good pharmacovigilance practices) and ensure the implementation of signal detection, assessment and the communication of adverse events that may be associated with the use of our products. We also proactively monitor product complaints through our quality systems, which includes assessing our drug delivery devices for device complaints, adverse events and malfunctions. We may also be required by regulatory agencies to conduct further clinical trials on our marketed products as a condition of their approval or to provide additional information on safety and efficacy. Health regulators, including the FDA, have authority to mandate labeling changes to products at any point in a product’s life cycle based on new safety information or as part of an evolving label change to a particular class of products.

Health regulators, including the FDA, also have authority both before and after approval to require that a company implement a risk management program for a product to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. Each risk management program is unique and varies depending on the specific factors required. In the United States, such a risk management program is known as a REMS; and we currently have REMSs for Prolia, Nplate and BLINCYTO.

Other Regulation

We are also subject to various laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including antikickback laws and false-claims laws. Antikickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for or to induce the referral of business, including the purchase or prescribing of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. False-claims laws prohibit knowingly and willingly presenting or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid) any claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as by the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Liability under false-claims laws may also arise when violation of certain laws or regulations related to the underlying product (e.g., a violation regarding improper promotional activity or unlawful payments) contributes to the submission of a false claim.

On April 25, 2019, we entered into a settlement agreement with the DOJ and the OIG of the HHS to settle certain allegations related to our support of independent charitable organizations that provide patients with financial assistance to access medicines. Additionally, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement that requires us to both maintain a corporate compliance program and undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for a period of five years. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices, it is possible that in the future, our practices might be further challenged under antikickback or similar laws. 

The FCPA prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA arguably includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anticorruption laws and/or regulations. Failure by our employees, agents, contractors, vendors, licensees, partners or collaborators to comply with the FCPA and other anticorruption laws and/or regulations could result in significant civil or criminal penalties.

We are subject to various laws and regulations globally with regard to privacy and data protection. These laws and regulations involve the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security of personal data. The legislative and regulatory environments regarding privacy and data protection are continually evolving and developing because these issues are subjects of increasing amounts of attention in countries globally. For example, we are subject to the EU’s GDPR, which became effective on May 25, 2018, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, which became effective on January 1, 2020 and China’s Personal Information Protection Law, which became effective on November 1, 2021. Other jurisdictions where we operate have enacted or proposed similar legislation and/or regulations. For example, the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act and the Colorado Privacy Act are set to become effective on January 1, 2023, and July 1, 2023, respectively. Failure to comply with these laws could result in significant penalties.

Our business has been and will continue to be subject to various other U.S. and foreign laws, rules and regulations. See Reimbursement section above.

15

Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates

We focus our R&D on novel human therapeutics for the treatment of serious illness. We capitalize on our strengths in human genetics, novel biology and protein engineering. We leverage our biologic expertise and seek to choose the optimal modality for a drug target and disease. And we use cutting-edge science and technology to study subtle biological mechanisms in search of therapies that will improve the lives of those who suffer from diseases.

Our discovery research programs may therefore yield targets that lead to the development of human therapeutics delivered as large molecules, small molecules, other combination modalities or new modalities. We have reshaped our portfolio and have increasingly focused our efforts on human genetics when possible to enhance the likelihood of success.

Since early 2021, COVID-19 global vaccination efforts have been under way to control the pandemic. However, uncertainty remains as to the length of time required for vaccination of a meaningful portion of the population and as to the efficacy of such vaccinations on the trajectory of the pandemic. Challenges to vaccination efforts, new variants and other causes of virus spread may require governments to issue additional restrictions and/or order shutdowns in various geographies. As a result, we expect to see continued volatility for at least the duration of the pandemic as governments respond to current local conditions. With regard to our drug development activities, we are continuously monitoring COVID-19 infection rates, including changes from new variants; we are working to mitigate effects on future study enrollment in our clinical trials; and we are evaluating the impact in all countries where clinical trials occur. We remain focused on supporting our active clinical sites in their providing care for patients and in our providing investigational drug supply.

For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, our R&D expenses were $4.8 billion, $4.2 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively.

We have major R&D centers in Thousand Oaks and San Francisco, California; Iceland; and the United Kingdom, as well as smaller research centers and development facilities globally. See Item 2. Properties.

Our clinical trial activities are conducted by both our internal staff and third-party contract clinical trial service providers. To increase the number and diversity of patients available for enrollment in our clinical trials, we have opened clinical sites and will continue opening clinical sites and enrolling patients in a number of geographic locations. See Government Regulation—Regulation in the United States—Clinical Development and Product Approval for a discussion of government regulation over clinical development. Also see Item 1A. Risk Factors—We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications.

Some of our competitors are actively engaged in R&D in areas in which we have products or in which we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. For example, we compete with other clinical trials for eligible patients, which may limit the number of available patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. The competitive marketplace for our product candidates is greatly dependent on the timing of entry into the market. Early entry may have important advantages in gaining product acceptance, thereby contributing to a product’s eventual success and profitability. Accordingly, we expect that in some cases, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing, receive regulatory approval and supply commercial quantities of a product to the market will be important to our competitive position.

In addition to product candidates and marketed products generated from our internal R&D efforts, we acquire companies, acquire and license certain product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D arrangements with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. In pursuing these R&D arrangements and licensing or acquisition activities, we face competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that also seek to license or acquire technologies, product candidates or marketed products from those entities performing the R&D.

The following table shows a selection of certain of our product candidates by phase of development in our therapeutic areas of focus as of February 8, 2022, unless otherwise indicated. Additional product candidate information can be found on our website at www.amgen.com. (The website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing.) The information in this section does not include other, nonregistrational clinical trials that we may conduct for purposes other than for submission to regulatory agencies for their approval of a new product indication.

We may conduct nonregistrational clinical trials for various reasons, including to evaluate real-world outcomes or to collect additional safety information with regard to the use of products.

16

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

17

Phase 3Clinical trials investigate the short- and long-term safety and efficacy of our product candidates, compared to commonly used treatments, in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.

Phase 2Clinical trials investigate side-effect profiles and efficacy of product candidates in a larger patient population than phase 1, but still relatively small, who have the disease or condition under study.

Phase 1Clinical trials investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of product candidates in a small number of human subjects.

Phase 3 Product Candidate Program Changes

As of February 2, 2021, we had 13 phase 3 programs. As of February 8, 2022, we continued to have 13 phase 3 programs, as regulatory approvals were received for three programs, four programs initiated phase 3 studies and one program was terminated. These changes are set forth in the following table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Phase 3 Product Candidate Patent Information

The following table describes our composition-of-matter patents that have been issued thus far for our product candidates in phase 3 development that have yet to be approved for any indication in the United States or the EU. Patents for products already approved for one or more indications in the United States or the EU but that are currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trials for additional indications have been previously described. See Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products—Patents.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Patent expiration estimates are based on issued patents, which may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by competitors. The estimates do not include any term adjustments, extensions or supplemental protection certificates that may be obtained in the future and thereby extend these dates. Corresponding patent applications are pending in other jurisdictions. Additional patents may be filed or issued and may provide additional exclusivity for the product candidate or its use.

Phases 3 and 2 Program Descriptions

The following provides additional information about selected product candidates that have advanced into human clinical trials.

AMJEVITA

AMJEVITA is a biosimilar to HUMIRA, which is a monoclonal antibody that inhibits binding of TNF-alpha to cell surface TNF receptor / TNF-alpha.

Bemarituzumab

Bemarituzumab is a monoclonal antibody that inhibits FGFR2b. It is being investigated for the treatment of advanced GEJ adenocarcinoma.

In April 2021, Amgen announced that the FDA had granted Breakthrough Therapy designation for bemarituzumab.

18

BLINCYTO

BLINCYTO is an anti-CD19 x anti-CD3 BiTE® molecule. It is being investigated in newly diagnosed adults age 40 and older with Ph negative B-Cell precursor ALL.

Efavaleukin alfa

Efavaleukin alfa is an IL-2 mutein Fc fusion protein. It is being investigated for the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus and ulcerative colitis.

EVENITY

EVENITY is a monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of sclerostin. It is being evaluated as a treatment for male osteoporosis. EVENITY is being developed in collaboration with UCB.

KYPROLIS

KYPROLIS is a small molecule proteasome inhibitor. It is being investigated for weekly dosing in combinations with lenalidomide and dexamethasone for relapsed multiple myeloma.

In December 2021, we announced that the FDA had approved the expansion of the KYPROLIS prescribing information to include its use in combination with DARZALEX FASPRO (daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj) and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received one to three lines of therapy.

LUMAKRAS/LUMYKRAS

LUMAKRAS is a KRAS G12C small molecule inhibitor. It is being investigated as treatment for a variety of solid tumors, including NSCLC, colorectal cancer and other solid tumor cancers.

In May 2021, we announced that the FDA had approved LUMAKRAS for the treatment of adult patients with KRAS G12C–mutated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC, as determined by an FDA-approved test, who have received at least one prior systemic therapy. 

In November 2021, we announced that the EMA’s CHMP had adopted a positive opinion and recommended conditional marketing authorization of LUMYKRAS, known as LUMAKRAS in the United States, for the treatment of adults with advanced NSCLC with KRAS G12C mutation and who have progressed after at least one prior line of systemic therapy.

In January 2022, we announced that the EC had granted conditional marketing authorization for LUMYKRAS for the treatment of adults with advanced NSCLC with KRAS G12C mutation and who have progressed after at least one prior line of systemic therapy. We also announced that LUMAKRAS had been approved in Japan for the treatment of KRAS G12C-mutated positive, unresectable, advanced and/or recurrent NSCLC that has progressed after systemic anticancer therapy.

Nplate

Nplate is a TPO-RA. It is being investigated for the treatment of CIT.

Olpasiran

Olpasiran is an siRNA that lowers lipoprotein(a), also known as Lp(a). It is being investigated in phase 2 for the treatment of atherosclerotic CV disease.

Ordesekimab

Ordesekimab is a monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of IL-15. It is being investigated for the treatment of celiac disease and is being developed in collaboration with Provention Bio, Inc.

Otezla

Otezla is a small molecule that inhibits PDE4. It is being investigated in phase 3 studies for the treatment of patients with moderate-to-severe genital psoriasis. It is being investigated in a phase 2 study for treatment of palmoplantar pustulosis.

In February 2021, we announced the submission of an sNDA to the FDA for the treatment of adults with mild-to-moderate plaque psoriasis who are candidates for phototherapy or systemic therapy.

19

In May 2021, we announced that the FDA had accepted for review our sNDA for the treatment of adults with mild-to-moderate plaque psoriasis who are candidates for phototherapy or systemic therapy. The FDA had set a PDUFA action date of December 19, 2021. 

In December 2021, we announced that the FDA had approved the expanded indication for Otezla for the treatment of adult patients with plaque psoriasis, who are candidates for phototherapy or systemic therapy, across all severities.

Repatha

Repatha is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits PCSK9. It is being investigated as a treatment for atherosclerotic CV disease in high-risk patients with high LDL-C without prior heart attack or stroke.

Rozibafusp alfa 

Rozibafusp alfa is a novel antibody-peptide conjugate that simultaneously blocks the BAFF and ICOSL activity. It is being investigated as a treatment for systemic lupus erythematosus.

Tarlatamab

Tarlatamab is an HLE anti- DLL3 x anti-CD3 BiTE® molecule. It is being investigated for the treatment of small cell lung cancer.

TEZSPIRE

TEZSPIRE is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of thymic stromal lymphopoietin. It is being evaluated in phase 3 studies as a treatment for severe asthma and chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps. It is also being investigated in phase 2 studies as a treatment for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and chronic spontaneous urticaria. TEZSPIRE is being developed jointly in collaboration with AstraZeneca.

In May 2021, we announced that our partner AstraZeneca had submitted a BLA to the FDA for tezepelumab, a potential first-in-class medicine in severe asthma.

In July 2021, we announced that the FDA had accepted a BLA and granted Priority Review of TEZSPIRE for the treatment of asthma.

In December 2021, we announced that the FDA had approved Amgen and AstraZeneca's TEZSPIRE for the add-on maintenance treatment of adult and pediatric patients aged 12 years and older with severe asthma.

In January 2022, we announced that TEZSPIRE is available for shipment to wholesalers in the United States.

AMG 451/KHK4083

AMG 451/KHK4083 is a monoclonal antibody that inhibits OX-40. It is being investigated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. AMG 451/KHK4083 is being developed in collaboration with KKC.

ABP 654

ABP 654, a biosimilar candidate to STELARA (ustekinumab), is a monoclonal antibody that inhibits IL-12 and IL-23. It is being investigated in a phase 3 study for biosimilarity to STELARA. The reference-product primary conditions are psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis and Crohn’s disease.

ABP 938

ABP 938, a biosimilar candidate to EYLEA, is a VEGFR Fc fusion protein. It is being investigated in a phase 3 study for biosimilarity to EYLEA. The reference-product primary conditions are wet AMD, macular edema following retinal vein occlusion, diabetic macular edema and diabetic retinopathy.

ABP 959

ABP 959, a biosimilar candidate to SOLIRIS, is a monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to the complement protein C5. It is being investigated in a phase 3 study for biosimilarity to SOLIRIS. The reference-product primary conditions are PNH and aHUS.

20

Business Relationships

From time to time, we enter into business relationships, including joint ventures and collaborative arrangements, for the R&D, manufacture and/or commercialization of products and/or product candidates. In addition, we acquire product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D collaborations with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed-product base. These arrangements generally provide for nonrefundable, upfront license fees, development and commercial-performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty payments and/or profit sharing. The activities under these collaboration agreements are performed with no guarantee of either technological or commercial success, and each is unique in nature.

Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade secrets, we generally require counterparties to execute confidentiality agreements upon commencement of a business relationship with us. However, others could either develop independently the same or similar information or unlawfully obtain access to our information.

BeiGene, Ltd.

On January 2, 2020, we acquired a 20.5% stake in BeiGene for approximately $2.8 billion in cash as part of a collaboration to expand our oncology presence in China. Under the collaboration, BeiGene began selling XGEVA in 2020, BLINCYTO in 2021 and KYPROLIS in early 2022 in China, and Amgen shares profits and losses equally during the initial product-specific commercialization periods; thereafter, product rights may revert to Amgen, and Amgen will pay royalties to BeiGene on sales in China of such products for a specified period.

In addition, we jointly develop a portion of our oncology portfolio with BeiGene, which shares in global R&D costs by providing cash and development services of up to $1.25 billion. Upon regulatory approval, BeiGene will assume commercialization rights in China for a specified period, and Amgen and BeiGene will share profits equally until certain of these product rights revert to Amgen. Upon return of the product rights, Amgen will pay royalties to BeiGene on sales in China for a specified period. For product sales outside China, Amgen will also pay royalties to BeiGene.

Novartis

We are in a collaboration with Novartis to jointly develop and commercialize Aimovig. On January 31, 2022, concurrent with the settlement of the previously disclosed litigation between Amgen and Novartis we modified the terms of the collaboration. See Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Arrangement through December 31, 2021

In the United States, Amgen and Novartis jointly developed and collaborated on the commercialization of Aimovig. Amgen, as the principal, recognized product sales of Aimovig in the United States, shared U.S. commercialization costs with Novartis and paid Novartis a significant royalty on net sales in the United States. Novartis held global co-development rights and exclusive commercial rights outside the United States and Japan for Aimovig (the ex-U.S. Novartis Rights). Novartis paid Amgen double-digit royalties on net sales of the product in the ex-U.S. Novartis Rights territories and funded a portion of global R&D expenses. In addition, Novartis was required to make a payment to Amgen of up to $100 million if certain commercial and expenditure thresholds were achieved with respect to Aimovig in the United States. 

Arrangement after January 1, 2022

Pursuant to the amendment effective January 1, 2022, Novartis retains the ex-U.S. Novartis Rights and will continue to pay double-digit royalties on net sales in the ex-U.S. Novartis Rights territories. In the United States, Novartis will no longer collaborate with Amgen, share Aimovig commercialization costs or pay milestones and Amgen will no longer pay royalties to Novartis on sales of Aimovig. Amgen and Novartis will continue to share development expenses worldwide.

Amgen manufactures and supplies Aimovig worldwide.

21

DaVita Inc.

In January 2017, we entered into a six-year supply agreement with DaVita, which superseded the previously existing, seven-year supply agreement that commenced in 2012. Pursuant to the 2017 agreement, we supply EPOGEN and Aranesp in amounts necessary to meet specified annual percentages of DaVita’s and its affiliates’ requirements for ESAs used in providing dialysis services in the United States and Puerto Rico. Such percentages vary during the term of the agreement, but in each year are at least 90%. The agreement expires in December 2022. The agreement may be terminated by either party before expiration of its term in the event of certain breaches of the agreement by the other party.

For financial information about our significant collaborative arrangements, see Part IV—Note 8, Collaborations, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Human Capital Resources

Overview

Amgen’s approach to human capital resource management starts with our mission to serve patients. We strive to serve patients by transforming the promise of science and biotechnology into therapies that have the power to restore health or save lives. The way we approach our business is guided by our Amgen Values:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our staff are also guided by the Company’s Code of Conduct, which is designed to help every person who does business on our behalf worldwide (including all staff, management, consultants, contract workers and temporary workers) to understand what is expected of them.

Our industry exists in a complex regulatory and reimbursement environment. The unique demands of our industry, together with the challenges of running an enterprise focused on the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization of innovative medicines, requires a highly engaged and committed workforce.

As of December 31, 2021, Amgen had approximately 24,200 staff members in over 50 countries, and we have had relatively low global turnover rates. We also supplement our workforce with independent contractors, contingent workers and temporary workers, as needed. Outside of the United States, some of our employees are represented by unions or works councils. We consider our staff relations to be good, supported by regular assessments of staff engagement surveys on a wide range of topics (including engagement in the COVID-19 environment, diversity, inclusion and belonging, and maintaining a culture of compliance). We discuss the results of these surveys with our workforce and our Board of Directors. 

Compensation, Benefits and Development

Our approach to employee compensation and benefits is designed to deliver cash, equity and benefit programs that are competitive with those offered by leading companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries to attract, motivate and retain talent with a focus on encouraging performance, promoting accountability and adherence to Company values and alignment with the interests of the Company’s shareholders.

Our base pay program aims to compensate staff members relative to the value of the contributions of their role, which takes into account the skills, knowledge and abilities required to perform each position, as well as the experience brought to the job. We also provide annual incentive programs to reward our staff in alignment with achievement of Company-wide goals that are established annually and designed to drive aspects of our strategic priorities that support and advance our strategy across our Company. The majority of our staff members are also eligible for the grant of equity awards under our long-term incentive program that are designed to align the experience of these staff with that of our shareholders. 

All staff also participate in a regular performance measurement process through which staff receive performance and development feedback, and pay is aligned to performance. 

To support the development of our staff, we provide a variety of programs, including leadership development programs, virtual instructor-led courses and self-paced learning options.

22

Our benefit programs are also generally broad-based, promote health and overall well-being and emphasize saving for retirement. All regular U.S. staff members are eligible to participate in the same core health and welfare and retirement savings plans. Other U.S. employee benefits include medical plans, dental plans, adoption assistance, paid parental leave programs, access to childcare, employee assistance programs, employee stock purchase plan, flexible spending accounts, life, long-term care and business travel accident insurance, short and long-term disability benefits, wellness benefits and work-life resources and referrals. Comparable programs and benefits are available globally, with the same health and well-being intent, consistent with statutory requirements.

Our Compensation and Management Development Committee provides oversight of our compensation plans, policies and programs.

Safety and Wellness and Our Response to COVID-19

Creating a safe and healthy workplace for our staff is a priority at Amgen. Our goal is to have a world class safety record through safety leadership, risk management practices and integrating safety throughout our business processes. To foster our safety culture, we implement a comprehensive safety program, driving to understand and mitigate the root cause of safety incidents and manage and control variability. We use leading indicators to assess the effectiveness of our safety programs and make course corrections as needed. Additionally, we perform formal executive management review of functional safety performance for Operations, Global Commercial Operations and R&D on a quarterly basis with a focus on identifying early signals and taking action to drive continuous improvement. 

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic and as part of our commitment to work to ensure the safety and well-being of our employees, for 2020 and much of 2021, we have activated our applicable business continuity plans, including having those of our employees who were able to work from home to do so, and for employees returning to the workplace and the field, we took additional safety measures, including implementing occupancy limits, restricting business travel, providing and requiring the use of personal protective equipment, temperature screening and COVID-19 testing to access our workplaces. Staff member access to our facilities has been in accordance with applicable government health and safety protocols and guidance issued in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and in 2021 we required staff members in the United States and Puerto Rico to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.1 In the fourth quarter of 2021, we enabled our U.S. based workforce to return to the workplace for work that benefits from face-to-face interactions, while maintaining appropriate safety measures to ensure staff well-being. This approach intentionally combines the benefits of remote and in-person working at Amgen for the future as COVID-19 restrictions ease around the globe. We will continue to learn and adapt this approach as needed for the future.

Our Corporate Responsibility and Compliance Committee provides general oversight of our safety programs and initiatives, while our Board of Directors, as a whole, has overseen our specific responses to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging

We believe that a diverse and inclusive culture fosters innovation, which supports our ability to serve patients. Further, we also believe our global presence is strengthened by having a workforce that reflects the diversity of the patients we serve. It is with these beliefs in mind that we have continued to strengthen and grow our culture of diversity, inclusion and belonging. Our internal efforts include, in 2019, establishing a Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Council chaired by our Chief Executive Officer. In 2020, we implemented a global unconscious-bias training program, and we launched an ongoing learning journey with tools and resources that guides staff on the role they play in creating diversity, inclusion and belonging throughout the organization. Each of Amgen’s ERGs is sponsored by an executive leader who reports to the CEO. We are leveraging our ERGs to represent and support the diversity of Amgen staff, while also providing opportunities to Amgen’s business and the community. 

1 The vaccination requirement did not apply to staff who were unable to receive a COVID-19 vaccine because of qualifying religious or medical reasons.

23

Employee Resource Groups

Amgen Asian Association (AAA)Amgen Black Employee Network (ABEN)

Ability Bettered through Leadership and Education (ABLE), a resource group for those with disabilities, 

visible and invisible, including those conditions also experienced by the patients that Amgen serves.

Amgen Early Career Professionals (AECP)Amgen Indian Subcontinent Network (AISN)

Amgen Latin Employee Network (ALEN)Amgen LGBTQ and Allies Network (PRIDE)

Amgen Veterans Employees Network (AVEN)Women Empowered to be Exceptional (WE2)

Women in Information Systems Enrichment (WISE)Amgen International Network (AIN)

For 2021, to tangibly deepen and drive our diversity, inclusion and belonging activities enterprise-wide and actively communicate our culture of belonging to all staff, we established an annual diversity, inclusion and belonging goal for leaders at executive director and above levels to establish, document and execute diversity, inclusion and belonging action plans, with a target goal of 75% participation, which we achieved and exceeded in 2021. 

In areas of underrepresentation, we develop plans with a goal of bringing our representation in line with availability. We engage in outreach efforts to attract, retain and advance more women and minorities in our workforce. For example, we have worked to enhance our diverse candidate recruiting pool by developing relationships with organizations that can serve as a source of diverse candidates, such as the National Black MBA Association and National Sales Network, as well as historically black colleges and universities. In 2021, a fellowship program between Amgen and Howard University was established to expand the talent pool and diversify ranks in research and development. 

Additionally, at the end of 2020, we became a founding member of OneTen, a coalition of the world’s largest, best-known companies, that aims to hire one million Black Americans (with a specific focus on those without four-year college degrees) into good-paying, family-sustaining jobs over the next ten years. As a member of OneTen, Amgen is taking a leadership role in the greater Los Angeles region, where the company is headquartered, to help expand the coalition organizations that share our desire to offer opportunities to diverse talent. Other examples of actions that we are taking in this area include investment and participation in the Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association (a global organization focused on development and business networking for women in healthcare) and the UCLA Anderson School of Management leadership programs for women and underrepresented talent.

Our 2020 Consolidated EEO-1 Report can be viewed on our website at www.amgen.com (the website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained in our website is not intended to be a part of this filing).

In 2021, our Corporate Responsibility and Compliance Committee provided oversight of our policies, programs and initiatives focusing on workforce diversity and inclusion. In 2022, oversight of diversity, inclusion and belonging shifted to the Compensation and Management Development Committee, which also provides oversight of our human capital management.

Information about Our Executive Officers

The executive officers of the Company as of February 16, 2022, are set forth below. 

Mr. Robert A. Bradway, age 59, has served as a director of the Company since 2011 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since 2013. Mr. Bradway has been the Company’s President since 2010 and Chief Executive Officer since 2012. From 2010 to 2012, Mr. Bradway served as the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Bradway joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, Operations Strategy, and served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2007 to 2010. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Bradway was a Managing Director at Morgan Stanley in London, where, beginning in 2001, he had responsibility for the firm’s banking department and corporate finance activities in Europe. Mr. Bradway has been a director of The Boeing Company, an aerospace company and manufacturer of commercial airplanes, defense, space and securities systems, since 2016. He has served on the board of trustees of the University of Southern California since 2014. From 2011 to 2017, Mr. Bradway was a director of Norfolk Southern Corporation, a transportation company.

24

Mr. Murdo Gordon, age 55, became Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations, in 2018. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Gordon was Chief Commercial Officer at BMS, a pharmaceutical company, from 2016 to 2018. Mr. Gordon served as Head of Worldwide Markets at BMS from 2015 to 2016. Prior to this, Mr. Gordon served in a variety of leadership roles at BMS for more than 25 years.

Mr. Jonathan P. Graham, age 61, became Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in 2019. Mr. Graham joined the Company in 2015. From 2015 to 2019, Mr. Graham was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to joining Amgen, from 2006 to 2015, Mr. Graham was Senior Vice President and General Counsel at Danaher Corporation. From 2004 to 2006, Mr. Graham was Vice President, Litigation and Legal Policy, at General Electric Company (GE). Prior to GE, Mr. Graham was a partner at Williams & Connolly LLP.

Mr. Peter H. Griffith, age 63, became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2020. Mr. Griffith joined the Company in 2019 as Executive Vice President, Finance. Prior to joining Amgen, Mr. Griffith was President of Sherwood Canyon Group, LLC, a private equity firm. From 1997 to 2019, Mr. Griffith was a partner at EY, an accounting and professional services firm, and served in a variety of senior leadership roles, with his last position being Global Vice Chair, Corporate Development. Prior to EY, Mr. Griffith was a Managing Director and head of the investment banking division of Wedbush Securities Inc.

Ms. Nancy A. Grygiel, age 54, became Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer in 2020. Ms. Grygiel joined the Company in 2015. From 2016 to 2020, Ms. Grygiel was Vice President, Compliance. Prior to joining Amgen, from 2011 to 2015, Ms. Grygiel served as Vice President, Compliance, Corporate & International, at Allergan, Inc. (Allergan). Prior to Allergan, Ms. Grygiel held several management positions at Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Ms. Lori A. Johnston, age 57, became Executive Vice President, Human Resources, in 2019. From 2016 to 2019, Ms. Johnston served as the Company’s Senior Vice President, Human Resources. From 2012 to 2016, Ms. Johnston was Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of Celanese Corporation (Celanese). Prior to Celanese, Ms. Johnston served in a series of progressive leadership roles at Amgen from 2001 to 2012, with her last position being Vice President, Human Resources. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Johnston held human resources and other positions at Dell Inc.

Ms. Rachna Khosla, age 49, became Senior Vice President, Business Development, in 2021. Ms. Khosla joined the Company in 2013 as Corporate Development Director. From 2016 to 2018, Ms. Khosla was Executive Director, Business Development, and from 2018 to 2021, was Vice President, Business Development. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Khosla was a Director at Lazard Ltd. (Lazard) responsible for healthcare mergers and acquisitions. Prior to Lazard, Ms. Khosla had various roles at Credit Suisse Group AG, Sanofi Aventis, Aventis Capital, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., and Salomon Brothers, Inc.

Dr. David M. Reese, age 59, became Executive Vice President, R&D, in 2018. Dr. Reese joined the Company in 2005 and has held leadership roles in development, medical sciences and discovery research. Dr. Reese was Senior Vice President, Translational Sciences and Oncology, from 2017 to 2018 and Senior Vice President, Translational Sciences, from 2015 to 2017. Prior to joining Amgen, Dr. Reese was director of Clinical Research at the Breast Cancer International Research Group from 2001 to 2003 and a cofounder, president and chief medical officer of Translational Oncology Research International, a not-for-profit academic clinical research organization, from 2003 to 2005. Dr. Reese previously served on the faculty at UCLA and the University of California, San Francisco.

Mr. Esteban Santos, age 54, became Executive Vice President, Operations, in 2016. Mr. Santos joined the Company in 2007 as Executive Director, Manufacturing Technologies. From 2008 to 2013, Mr. Santos held a number of Vice President roles at the Company in engineering, manufacturing, site operations and drug product. From 2013 to 2016, Mr. Santos was Senior Vice President, Manufacturing. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Santos served as Site General Manager of J&J’s Cordis operation in Puerto Rico. Prior to J&J, Mr. Santos held several management positions in GE’s industrial and transportation businesses.

Geographic Area Financial Information

For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate, see Part IV—Note 3, Revenues and Note 11, Property, plant and equipment, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

25

Investor Information

Financial and other information about us is available on our website at www.amgen.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, we have previously filed registration statements and other documents with the SEC. Any document we file may be inspected without charge at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. (These website addresses are not intended to function as hyperlinks, and the information contained in our website and in the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this filing.)

Item 1A.RISK FACTORS