ITEM 1 – BUSINESS

Overview

We are an omni-channel retailer that makes it easy for our customers to feel at home. We sell a wide assortment of merchandise in the Home, Baby, Beauty & Wellness markets and operate under the names Bed Bath & Beyond, buybuy BABY ("BABY"), and Harmon, Harmon Face Values, or Face Values (collectively, "Harmon"). We also operate Decorist ("Decorist"), an online interior design platform that provides personalized home design services. 

We offer a broad assortment of national brands and a growing assortment of proprietary Owned Brand merchandise – including eight new proprietary Owned Brands ("Owned Brands") launched in Fiscal 2021 – in key destination categories including bedding, bath, kitchen food prep, home organization, indoor décor, baby and personal care.

We operate a robust omni-channel platform consisting of various websites and applications and physical retail stores. Our e-commerce platforms include bedbathandbeyond.com, bedbathandbeyond.ca, harmondiscount.com, facevalues.com, buybuybaby.com, buybuybaby.ca and decorist.com. We also operate 953 retail stores, as of February 26, 2022, consisting of 771 Bed Bath & Beyond stores in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Canada, 130 BABY stores in 37 states and Canada and 52 Harmon stores in 6 states. During Fiscal 2021, we opened 4 new stores and closed 70 stores. As of February 26, 2022, our total store square footage, net of openings and closings, was approximately 27.9 million square feet. In addition to our U.S. and Canadian operations, we are a partner in a joint venture that operates 11 stores in Mexico under the name Bed Bath & Beyond.

Starting in late 2019, we have created a more focused portfolio through the divestiture of non-core assets, including businesses and real estate, as part of the ongoing business transformation underway. See "Transformation," "Strategy" and "Divestitures" below.

Our merchandise and services are offered to customers through an omni-channel platform across our portfolio of banners, which consist of:

Bed Bath & Beyond - a leading specialty home retailer in North America that sells a wide assortment of domestics merchandise and home furnishings. Bed Bath & Beyond is a preferred destination in the home space, particularly in key product categories including bedding, bath, kitchen food prep, home organization and indoor decor.

buybuy BABY - a leading specialty baby retailer in North America that sells a wide assortment of baby essentials and nursery furnishings. BABY strives to build trust with parents by supporting them with what they need so families can celebrate every milestone – big and small – together.

Harmon Health and Beauty - offers an expansive assortment of leading name brand and private label personal care and beauty brands at deep everyday value.

Decorist - an online interior design company that makes decorating a home easy and affordable. Executed entirely online, Decorist's roster of over 190 professional interior designers help beautifully design any room in the home, staying within a client's style and budget. For customers not ready to start a full design project, they can consult Decorist's Design Bar to have quick design questions answered by Decorist's team of interior designers, completely free of charge. 

We are driving a digital-first, omni-always growth strategy and optimizing our digital and physical store channels to provide our customers with a seamless omni-channel shopping experience. Digital purchases, including web and mobile, can be shipped to a 

4
customer from our distribution facilities, directly from vendors, or from a store. Store purchases are primarily fulfilled from that store's inventory or may also be shipped to a customer from one of our distribution facilities, from a vendor, or from another store. Customers can also choose to pick up orders using our Buy Online Pickup In Store ("BOPIS") and contactless Curbside Pickup services, as well as return online purchases to a store, or have an order delivered through one of our delivery partners, including DoorDash and Uber. Customers can also make purchases through one of our customer contact centers and in-store through The Beyond Store, our proprietary web-based platform. 

As of February 26, 2022, we had distribution facilities totaling approximately 4.4 million square feet, including our first regional distribution center, an approximately one million square foot facility in Frackville, Pennsylvania, which became operational during Fiscal 2021. We also executed a lease for our second regional distribution center in Jurupa Valley, California, which is expected to be operational by late 2022. Ryder Systems, Inc. will operate these two regional distribution centers under a strategic partnership, with the objective of reducing product replenishment times and improving the customer experience. All of these capabilities allow us to better serve customers across our omni-channel network.

We account for our operations as one North American Retail reporting segment. In Fiscal 2020 and 2019, we accounted for our operations as two operating segments: North American Retail and Institutional Sales, the latter of which did not meet the quantitative thresholds under GAAP and, therefore, was not a reportable segment, and which was divested in October 2020. Net sales outside of the U.S. were not material for Fiscal 2021, 2020, or 2019. 

Transformation

Since 2019, we have undertaken significant changes to transform our business and adapt to the dynamic retail environment and the evolving needs of our customers in order to position ourselves for long-term success. As part of these changes, our management team, led by President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mark Tritton, has been focused on driving an omni-always, customer-inspired strategy to re-establish our authority in the Home, Baby, Beauty & Wellness markets. We have created a more focused portfolio through the divestiture of non-core assets and further strengthened our financial flexibility through key actions such as corporate restructurings and operating expense control to re-set our cost structure and support our ongoing business transformation.

We are implementing a growth strategy that will harness the power of data and insights to engage customers across our four core banners (Bed Bath & Beyond, buybuy BABY, Harmon and Decorist) in an enterprise-wide plan to accelerate our omni-channel transformation. Our strategy is underpinned by five key pillars of strategic focus and investment: product, price, promise, place and people. Through this approach, we are becoming a digital-first, customer-focused omni-channel retailer with a more curated, inspirational and differentiated product collection across categories, and creating a more convenient and inspirational shopping experience. 

During 2020 and 2021, as the world responded to the unparalleled challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic, we took thoughtful steps to safeguard our people and communities while we continued to serve our customers and drive transformative change throughout the organization. Similar to many other businesses, COVID-19 served as a catalyst to accelerate the pace of change and innovation at our Company— to advance our ongoing efforts to reset our cost structure and build a modern, durable model for long-term profitable growth.

Highlights of our progress in Fiscal 2021 include:

•Owned Brands. We launched eight new Owned Brands, which include an assortment of thousands of new products across our key destination categories of Bed, Bath, Kitchen Food Prep, Home Organization and Indoor Décor:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•New York City Flagship Renovation. We completed the renovation of our Bed Bath & Beyond flagship store in New York City, which reopened in July 2021 after undergoing a complete transformation since closing in December 2020. The renovated flagship store is an expression of the new Bed Bath & Beyond, with a significant focus on our five key destination categories of bed, bath, kitchen & dining, indoor décor and organization.

•Omni-Channel Capabilities. We continued our focus on being a digital-first, omni-always retailer:

5
◦We announced separate partnerships with DoorDash and Uber to provide on-demand delivery of essential homeware products and items from more than 700 Bed Bath & Beyond locations and nearly 120 BABY locations nationwide. 

◦In November 2021, we launched our new digital marketplace to build on our existing authority in key Home & Baby categories with an assortment of products from a highly curated selection of third-party brand partners that will be integrated into our digital platform.

◦In November 2021, we announced a strategic collaboration to directly offer Kroger customers an extensive selection of the most sought-after goods for the Home & Baby products carried by the Bed Bath & Beyond and buybuy BABY banners through Kroger.com as well as a small-scale physical store pilot at select Kroger Family of Companies stores beginning in Fiscal 2022.

•Additional Product Initiatives. Our Bed Bath & Beyond banner launched the Home, Happier Team, the brand's first-ever curated advisory panel of industry experts who will serve as "host and hostesses of the home," providing ideas, innovative solutions and compelling content to help customers personalize their living spaces and make it easy to feel at home. Our buybuy BABY banner introduced its "welcome to parenthood" program in-store and online through educational resources, reimagined shopping experiences, a revised registry, new digital offerings and a new marketing campaign to inspire customers to embrace every aspect of parenthood. Additionally, we announced key partnerships with Casper Sleep Inc. (including a first branded shop-in shop in our New York City flagship store), and with Safely™, an eco-friendly line of home care and cleaning products which made its retail debut exclusively in Bed Bath & Beyond, buybuy BABY and Harmon stores nationwide.

•Supply Chain Transformation. In the second half of Fiscal 2021, we started operations at our first regional distribution center, an approximately one million square foot facility in Frackville, Pennsylvania, and executed a lease for our second regional distribution center in Jurupa Valley, California, which is expected to be operational by late 2022.

•Store Fleet Optimization. We continue to believe that our physical store channel is an asset for our transformation into a digital-first company, especially with omni-fulfillment capabilities in BOPIS, Curbside Pickup, Same Day Delivery and fulfill-from-store. During Fiscal 2021:

◦We commenced renovations on approximately 130 stores, of which approximately 80 were completed, to bring the expression of the new Bed Bath & Beyond to our customers in many of our markets.

◦We largely completed our initial plan for the optimization of our store fleet through the closure of 63 mostly Bed Bath & Beyond stores during Fiscal 2021, bringing the total closures over the life of the program to 207 as of February 26, 2022.

We will continue to build on this strong foundation as we execute our three-year growth strategy to further elevate the shopping experience, modernize our operations, and unlock strong and sustainable shareholder value.

Strategy

In particular with respect to strategy, we have embraced a digital-first, omni-always growth strategy that supports our purpose - to make it easy to feel at home - and our mission to re-establish our authority and be the preferred omni-channel home destination, driven by teams consistently delivering balanced durable growth. The framework of our strategy is based on the principles of being customer inspired, omni-always, people-powered and performance driven. The business initiatives intended to drive our growth are rooted in the following five pillars:

1.Product: We are refining and amplifying an exciting omni-channel assortment that rebuilds authority and preference for Bed Bath & Beyond and creates energy through differentiation and curation.

2.Price: We are investing in and clarifying compelling value through more choice with opening price points, relevant owned brands and clear price communications in order to sharpen our value for quality proposition and to both acquire and win back customers.

3.Place: We are accelerating and optimizing connecting with, inspiring and energizing our customers by becoming a truly omni-always retailer to serve their preferred shopping needs.

4.Promise: We are clarifying and deepening our relationship with our customers by connecting, engaging and motivating them to strengthen loyalty and lifetime value.

6
5.People: We are creating and sustaining a talent engine and culture that attracts, retains and develops high-performing teams who consistently deliver operational excellence and business results.

With these five pillars as our guide, we are embracing a commitment to reconstruct and modernize our operating model to drive efficiency and effectiveness, charting a new course for our Company.

•Product. We are pursuing three key initiatives across our product strategy: developing an inspirational and more productive assortment, working closely with suppliers to reduce product cost and improving inventory management. We are rebuilding our authority in destination categories such as bedding, bath, kitchen food prep and home organization, including the launch of eight new Owned Brands during Fiscal 2021 with several more planned over the next few years that will address a wide variety of customer needs, including value, style and destination categories. At the same time, we are elevating the customer experience both in-store and online to be more inspirational, focusing on destination rooms and making it easier to navigate and more convenient to shop. As we build out our new assortment, we expect to leverage our scale and volume to re-negotiate lower sourcing costs from our suppliers. In addition, we are strengthening our inventory management capabilities by moving to a centralized ordering and replenishment system expected to optimize inventory by channel and store, improve markdown management and drive overall productivity. 

•Price. Our data-driven pricing strategy includes four key elements: ensuring our products are competitively priced, having a more value-driven assortment across a variety of price points, building more disciplined processes to drive effective and efficient promotions, and strengthening the way we communicate value to our customers. We regularly monitor price levels at our competitors in order to ensure that our prices are in accordance with our pricing philosophy. We will also continue to improve price competitiveness across key categories while also addressing assortment gaps in value tiers, to help us compete better with mass retailers and attract new customers to our business. We will use data-driven insights to build discipline into the use of promotions, to increase return on investment and reduce ineffective promotional activity. 

•Place. Our growth strategy leads with digital across channels and leverages our stores to our competitive advantage to drive a seamless customer experience. We are enhancing our digital experience through improved storytelling, making our website and mobile site speeds faster, and making it easier for customers to find what they need and place an order more quickly. To create a more seamless experience across channels, we have grown our omni-channel services such as BOPIS, contactless Curbside pickup and Same Day Delivery. We have expanded our ship from store capabilities, leveraging our national footprint and local market proximity to demand, and we are enhancing our store experience through data-driven store remodels and improving the productivity of our stores through a fleet optimization program. 

•Promise. With a large customer base of approximately 35 million, one in five homes in the U.S., is a Bed Bath & Beyond home. The addition of approximately 7 million new digital customers during 2021 highlights our strong potential to attract, retain and drive spend within the Home, Baby, Beauty & Wellness markets. As part of our strategic growth plans, we launched a new customer value proposition to deepen connections with five core customer segments. In addition, we are developing an enterprise-wide strategy to unlock value across our core brands, including plans for a reinvented loyalty program to deepen customer relationships and motivate increased shopping across categories, channels and banners.

•People. Since the appointment of our President and CEO, Mark Tritton, we have recruited highly energetic, experienced and innovative leaders and team members to work together, lead innovation and modernization, drive growth and accelerate the pace of change across our business. We are committed to creating and sustaining a talent engine and culture that attracts, retains and develops high performing team members who consistently deliver operational excellence and business results. As we consider how best to position associates to support our business and drive efficiency and effectiveness, we are guided by four principles: to be customer inspired, omni-always, people-powered and performance-driven.

Divestitures

During Fiscal 2020, we divested five non-core banners, including One Kings Lane in the first quarter, PersonalizationMall.com in the second quarter, Linen Holdings and Christmas Tree Shops in the third quarter and Cost Plus World Market in the fourth quarter, generating approximately $534 million in net proceeds, which were reinvested in our core business operations to drive growth, fund share repurchases and reduce our outstanding debt. See "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for detailed information relating to these divestitures.

Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic

7
As discussed in more detail throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has materially disrupted our operations to date, most significantly in Fiscal 2020. In compliance with relevant government directives, we closed all of our retail banner stores across the U.S. and Canada as of March 23, 2020, except for most stand-alone BABY and Harmon stores, which were categorized as essential given the nature of their products. In May 2020, we announced a phased approach to re-open our stores in compliance with relevant government directives, and as of the end of July 2020, nearly all of our stores reopened.  During portions of Fiscal 2021, a limited number of stores in Canada either closed temporarily or continued to operate under restrictions in compliance with local governmental orders. As of February 26, 2022, all of the Company's stores were operating without restriction subject to compliance with applicable mask and vaccine requirements. As of February 26, 2022, our BOPIS, contactless Curbside Pickup and Same Day Delivery services are in place at the vast majority of our stores. We cannot predict, however, whether our stores will remain open, particularly if the regions in which we operate experience potential resurgences of reported new cases of COVID-19 or increased rates of hospitalizations, or become subject to additional governmental regulatory actions.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive business environment and compete with other national, regional, and local physical and online retailers that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores, mass merchandise stores and online only retailers. We believe that the key to competing in our industry is to provide best-in-class customer service and customer experiences in stores and online, which includes providing compelling price and value; high-quality and differentiated products, services and solutions; convenience; technology; personalization; and appealing and experiential store environments.

Suppliers

Historically, we have purchased substantially all of our merchandise in the United States, with the majority from domestic sources (who may manufacture overseas) and the balance from importers. As we continue to expand our assortment of Owned Brand merchandise, the portion of our merchandise that we purchase directly from overseas sources is increasing, and represented approximately 22% of our total purchases in Fiscal 2021.

Further developing our direct importing and direct sourcing capabilities will allow for a higher penetration of sourced and developed Owned Brands in our merchandise assortment; however, this also exposes us more directly to the effects of global supply chain disruptions on costs of shipping as well as potential issues with product availability due to delays in product sourcing. See Item 1A "Risk Factors - Disruptions of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our operating and financial" results for additional information.

In Fiscal 2021, we purchased our merchandise from approximately 4,600 suppliers with our largest supplier accounting for approximately 5% of our merchandise purchases and the ten largest suppliers accounting for approximately 23% of such purchases. We have no long-term contracts for the purchases of merchandise. We believe that most merchandise, other than brand name goods, is available from a variety of sources and that most brand name goods can be replaced with comparable merchandise.

Distribution

A substantial portion of our merchandise is shipped to stores through a combination of third-party facilities, including cross dock locations, or through our operated distribution facilities that are located throughout the United States. The remaining merchandise is shipped directly from vendors. Merchandise is shipped directly to customers from one of our distribution facilities, stores or from vendors. The majority of our shipments are made by contract carriers depending upon location. During Fiscal 2021, we started operations at our first regional distribution center, an approximately one million square foot facility in Frackville, Pennsylvania, and executed a lease for our second regional distribution center in Jurupa Valley, California, which is expected to be operational by late 2022. Ryder Systems, Inc. will operate these two regional distribution centers under a strategic partnership, with the objective of reducing product replenishment times and improving the customer experience. See "Item 2 – Properties" for additional information regarding our distribution facilities.

Marketing

We employ a digital-first, omni-channel approach to marketing that is strategically designed to deliver maximum consumer engagement. The customer-inspired marketing mix includes a comprehensive range of touchpoints, including social, search, mobile SMS, email, digital video, display, content and influencer marketing, online affiliate programs and public relations, as well as traditional broadcast and print media, circulars, catalogs and our well-known "big blue" coupons. We also continue to invest in 

8
and promote our Beyond+ membership program, which provides members with discounts on purchases, as well as free standard shipping for online purchases, exclusive offers and other benefits. 

We continue to invest in new technology tools that we expect will allow us to make significant strides in integrating our extensive customer data with relevant third-party data, in order to better scale, tailor and personalize marketing communications for our key customer segments.

Customer Care

Our omni-always strategy is rooted in elevating the end-to-end experience for our customers across all channels, brands and banners. Through a customer inspired lens, we invest in capabilities necessary to continuously evolve and deliver a seamless experience to our customers. Our digital-first customer care makes it easy for customers to connect with us through chat, phone and our digital properties including our newly relaunched mobile apps that offer quick access to self-serve capabilities. Our holistic approach to customer care is designed to make it convenient for our customers to access help wherever and whenever they need it.

Tradenames, Service Marks and Domain Names

We use the service marks "Bed Bath & Beyond," "buybuy BABY," "Harmon," "Face Values" and "Decorist" in connection with our retail services. We have registered trademarks and service marks or are seeking registrations for these and other trademarks and service marks (including for our Owned Brands) with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In addition, we have registered or have applications pending with the trademark registries of several foreign countries, including the "Bed Bath & Beyond" name and logo registered in Canada and Mexico and the "buybuy BABY" name and logo registered in Canada. We also own a number of product trademarks. We file patent applications and seek copyright registrations where we deem such to be advantageous to the business. We believe that our name recognition and service marks are important elements of our merchandising strategy.

We also own a number of domain names, including bedbathandbeyond.com, bedbathandbeyond.ca, buybuybaby.com, buybuybaby.ca, harmondiscount.com, facevalues.com and decorist.com.

People & Culture 

Our strategic transformation is based on five key pillars: product, price, promise, place and people. The people pillar of our transformation strategy communicates our commitment to creating and sustaining a talent engine and culture that attracts, retains and develops high performing team members who consistently deliver operational excellence and business results. Our associates are our greatest asset, and we are committed to creating a workforce where all associates thrive. By supporting our associates’ physical, mental, social, and emotional well-being, we strive to establish an engaging workplace environment with opportunities and other tools, such as access to Headspace, a leading meditation and mindfulness app, and leadership development programs for future success.

Our Board of Directors, through the People, Culture & Compensation Committee (formerly referred to as the Compensation Committee), oversees our people and culture programs, including cultural initiatives, associate engagement and diversity, equity and inclusion ("DE&I") program, policies and initiatives.

As of February 26, 2022, we had approximately 32,000 associates, including approximately 26,000 store associates and approximately 3,500 supply chain associates. We invest a great deal of time and effort in our relationship with our associates, and consider that relationship to be good.

We are committed to continuous listening through regular engagement surveys and pulse surveys to ensure we have open channels to gather frequent feedback from our associates. Our engagement survey process is in addition to other two-way communication vehicles we will continue, such as listening circles.

Associate Engagement and Retention

Associate engagement and retention require an understanding of the needs of our teams. In furtherance of our goal to create an equitable, inclusive work environment where all associates feel at home and can thrive, we prioritize associate engagement. We want all associates to be proud to work at Bed Bath & Beyond. We promote a culture of listening and learning and offer opportunities for all associates to provide feedback. In 2021, we engaged associates through our first enterprise-wide associate survey, resulting in more than 70% associate participation, We shared the results from the survey – including key themes, top strengths, priority areas and next steps - with our Board of Directors, senior management, and associates to continue the dialogue and respond to the feedback we heard.

9
As a result of our engagement activities, we strive to develop key programs and policies to support and retain our critical talent. This includes certain associate benefits and workplace programs, such as 100% paid parental leave, our flexible time off policy and dedicated wellness spaces in our corporate offices. We also held listening circles in response to social issues that arose throughout the year to provide a platform for our associates to share their experiences as well as provide ideas for how we can better support them.

Associate Development & Training

We strive to maintain an engaging workplace culture that provides development opportunities for associates as well as a performance management process that includes discussions of goals to set up our associates for future success.

We are building a comprehensive learning and development offering, which will include an expansion of our skill development programs and upskilling training courses designed to provide associates with technical and competency-based skills applicable across a range of career paths. We have also developed strategic partnerships with learning partners to produce development content on daily tools and provide on-demand learnings on topics such as meeting and communication effectiveness.

Our regional and district store leaders, as well as supply chain leaders, participate in a newly-launched Foundational Leadership Course, which supports their career development and provides them with the tools and resources needed to lead associates and create a strong culture in our stores and our Distribution/Fulfillment facilities Our role framework, completed in 2021, provides the foundation for career path options which in addition to performance management, serves as to further clarify the development and advancement opportunities for associates.

In addition, associates receive annual training on a variety of topics, which is targeted based on their roles and job function and focus on our commitment to high ethical standards and fostering a culture of honesty, integrity, and compliance.

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion

We embrace DE&I and strive to model a culture of trust and accountability where all associates know they belong. By building upon our recruitment, development, and promotion practices, we are committed to equitably distributing opportunities and achieving a workforce that reflects the world we live in and the customers we serve. We monitor the representation of women and racially or ethnically diverse associates at all levels of our organization and continue to make progress toward our 2030 goals of 50% female and 25% racial and ethnic diversity at each level. In 2021, we appointed a Chief DE&I Officer, implemented educational programming to increase awareness, empathy and understanding and launched several associate resource groups aimed at building community, providing a platform for meaningful discussion and advancing a culture of DE&I to create safe and supportive spaces for our associates.

Compensation and Benefits

To support associate recruitment and retention, we recently redesigned our total rewards program to provide incentives, recognition and benefit programs that reflect the changing needs of our associates, with an emphasis on supporting the financial, physical, mental, social, and emotional well-being of our associates. Our compensation packages include, but are not limited to, competitive wage rates, an annual short-term incentive program, long-term incentive program, a 401(k) plan with matching contributions, paid vacation and holidays, a flexible time off policy, health, dental and vision insurance, paid parental leave, disability insurance, life insurance, health savings and flexible spending accounts, free health and wellness subscriptions and support via an associate relief fund. Eligibility for, and the level of, benefits vary depending on associates’ full-time or part-time status, work location, role, and tenure.

Associate Health & Safety

The health and wellbeing of our customers and associates is one of our top priorities. We implement health, safety, and security programs and strive to maintain a safe and secure environment for our associates and customers. We tailor our programs to address potential risks in all our workplaces, from stores, distribution centers, and corporate offices, to business travel. This includes our safety and security standards and policies, emergency response and crisis management protocol and associate training related to the risks and exposures in their areas of responsibility.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we expanded our policies to include a new vaccination time policy, and sick time policies as required by state and local law, associate rapid response programs with COVID-19 protocols and safety tips and a new store safety plan, which includes requirements with respect to masks, social distancing and cleaning measures, among others. We’ve also introduced other remote work benefits including a hybrid corporate office schedule and dedicated weekly focus time to create time to innovate.

10
Government Regulations

We believe that we are in compliance with all applicable government regulations, including environmental regulations. We do not anticipate any material effects on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position as a result of our efforts to comply with applicable government regulations.

Seasonality

Our business is subject to seasonal influences. Generally, our sales volumes are higher in the calendar months of August (back to school/college), November and December (holiday), and lower in February.

Available Information

We make available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), free of charge, through our websites, www.bedbathandbeyond.com, and http://bedbathandbeyond.gcs-web.com/financial-information/sec-filings, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, electronically filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We may also use our websites as a distribution channel of material information about us including through press releases, investor presentations, and notices of upcoming events. We intend to utilize the investor relations section of our website as a channel of distribution to reach public investors and as a means of disclosing material non-public information for complying with disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. We also intend to use certain social media channels, including, but not limited to, Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn, as means of communicating with the public, our customers and investors about us, our products, and other matters. While not all the information that we post to our website and social media channels may be deemed to be of a material nature, some information may be, and we therefore encourage investors, the media and others interested in us to review the information we make public in these locations.

ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS