ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to certain market risks that are inherent in our financial instruments and arise from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We may enter into derivative financial instrument transactions to manage or reduce market risk but do not enter into derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. A discussion of our primary market risk exposure in financial instruments is presented below.

INTEREST RATE RISK

All of our long-term debt is comprised of fixed rate instruments. We are subject to interest rate risk on our debt and investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2021, we had interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $500 million that converted a portion of our $1,350 million aggregate principal amount of 3.337% fixed rate Senior Notes due 2027 into a floating rate instrument with an interest rate based on a LIBOR index as a hedge of its exposure to changes in fair value that are attributable to interest rate risk. The interest rate swaps are designated and each qualify as a fair value hedging instrument. The interest rate swaps are considered to be effective at achieving offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged liability, and no ineffectiveness is recognized. The mark-to-market of this fair value hedge was recorded as gain or loss in interest expense and was equally offset by the gain or loss of the underlying debt instrument, which also was recorded in interest expense.

The following table sets forth our fixed rate long-term debt, excluding finance leases, and the related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Fair market value of our fixed rate long-term debt, excluding finance leases, was $7.2 billion at December 31, 2021.

(2)Amounts represent the principal value of our long-term debt outstanding and related weighted average interest rates at the end of the respective period.

Baker Hughes Holdings LLC 2021 Form 10-K | 39

FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RISK

We conduct our operations around the world in a number of different currencies, and we are exposed to market risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Many of our significant foreign subsidiaries have designated the local currency as their functional currency. As such, future earnings are subject to change due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates when transactions are denominated in currencies other than our functional currencies.

Additionally, we buy, manufacture and sell components and products across global markets. These activities expose us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates which can adversely affect revenue earned and costs of our operating businesses. When the currency in which equipment is sold differs from the primary currency of the legal entity and the exchange rate fluctuates, it will affect the revenue earned on the sale. These sales and purchase transactions also create receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies and exposure to foreign currency gains and losses based on changes in exchange rates. Changes in the price of raw materials used in manufacturing can affect the cost of manufacturing. We use derivatives to mitigate or eliminate these exposures, where appropriate.

We use cash flow hedging primarily to reduce or eliminate the effects of foreign currency exchange rate changes on purchase and sale contracts. Accordingly, most derivative activity in this category consists of currency exchange contracts. We had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $3.3 billion and $6.8 billion to hedge exposure to currency fluctuations in various foreign currencies at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The notional amount of these derivative instruments do not generally represent cash amounts exchanged by us and the counterparties, but rather the nominal amount upon which changes in the value of the derivatives are measured.

As of December 31, 2021, the Company estimates that a 1% appreciation or depreciation in the U.S. dollar would result in an impact of less than $10 million to our pre-tax earnings, however, the Company is generally able to mitigate its foreign exchange exposure, where there are liquid financial markets, through use of foreign currency derivative transactions. Also, see "Note 14. Financial Instruments" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 herein, which has additional details on our strategy.

Baker Hughes Holdings LLC 2021 Form 10-K | 40

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA