ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

The principal market risks affecting us during fiscal 2022 and 2021 were exposures to price fluctuations of commodity and energy inputs, interest rates, and foreign currencies. 

Commodity Market Risk 

We purchase commodity inputs such as wheat, corn, oats, soybean meal, soybean oil, meat, dairy products, nuts, sugar, natural gas, electricity, and packaging materials to be used in our operations. These commodities are subject to price fluctuations that may create price risk. We enter into commodity hedges to manage this price risk using physical forward contracts or derivative instruments. We have policies governing the hedging instruments our businesses may use. These policies include limiting the dollar risk exposure for each of our businesses. We also monitor the amount of associated counter-party credit risk for all non-exchange-traded transactions. 

Interest Rate Risk 

We may use interest rate swaps to manage the effect of interest rate changes on the fair value of our existing debt as well as the forecasted interest payments for the anticipated issuance of debt. 

As of May 29, 2022 and May 30, 2021, the fair value of our long-term debt (including current installments) was estimated at $8.85 billion and $9.76 billion, respectively, based on current market rates. As of May 29, 2022 and May 30, 2021, a 1% increase in interest rates would decrease the fair value of our fixed rate debt by approximately $481.8 million and $682.2 million, respectively, while a 1% decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of our fixed rate debt by approximately $543.4 million and $779.8 million, respectively. 

Foreign Currency Risk 

In order to reduce exposures for our processing activities related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we may enter into forward exchange or option contracts for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency for certain of our operations. This activity primarily relates to economically hedging against foreign currency risk in purchasing inventory and capital equipment, sales of finished goods, and future settlement of foreign denominated assets and liabilities. 

Effect of Hypothetical 10% Fluctuation 

We changed the disclosure alternative for reporting our commodity and foreign exchange derivatives (inclusive of commodity and foreign exchange swaps, futures, forwards, and options) in the second quarter of fiscal 2022 from a value-at-risk ("VaR") model to a hypothetical sensitivity analysis. The change in the methodology was made to simplify and enhance the information presented about the sensitivities of our derivative positions. 

The potential gain or loss on the fair value of our outstanding commodity and foreign exchange contracts, assuming a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, would have been (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 37    

 Table of Contents     

It should be noted that any change in the fair value of our derivative contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by an inverse change in the value of the underlying hedged items. In relation to foreign currency contracts, this hypothetical calculation assumes that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the U.S. dollar. 

 38    

 Table of Contents     

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA