Item 1A.Risk Factors 

CenterPoint Energy is a holding company that conducts all of its business operations through subsidiaries, primarily Houston Electric, CERC, SIGECO, Indiana Gas and VEDO. The following, along with any additional legal proceedings identified or incorporated by reference in Item 3 of this combined report on Form 10-K, summarizes the principal risk factors associated with the holding company and the businesses conducted by its subsidiaries. However, additional risks and uncertainties either not presently known or not currently believed by management to be material may also adversely affect CenterPoint Energy’s businesses. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ from those indicated in any forward-

17

looking statement or projection contained in this combined report on Form 10-K, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Certain Factors Affecting Future Earnings” in Item 7, which should be read in conjunction with the risk factors contained in this Item 1A. Carefully consider each of the risks described below, including those relating to Houston Electric and CERC, which, along with CenterPoint Energy, are collectively referred to as the Registrants. Unless the context indicates otherwise, where appropriate, information relating to a specific registrant has been segregated and labeled as such and specific references to Houston Electric and CERC in this section also pertain to CenterPoint Energy. In this combined report on Form 10-K, the terms “our,” “we” and “us” are used as abbreviated references to CenterPoint Energy, Inc. together with its subsidiaries. 

Risk Factors Associated with Our Consolidated Financial Condition

CenterPoint Energy is a holding company that derives all of its operating income from, and holds substantially all of its assets through, its subsidiaries. As a result, CenterPoint Energy depends on the performance of and distributions from its subsidiaries to meet its payment obligations and to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock, and provisions of applicable law or contractual restrictions could limit the amount of those distributions. 

CenterPoint Energy derives all of its operating income from, and holds substantially all of its assets through, its subsidiaries. As a result, CenterPoint Energy depends on the performance of and distributions from its subsidiaries to meet its payment obligations and to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock. In general, CenterPoint Energy’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide it with funds for its payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or otherwise. In addition, provisions of applicable law, such as those limiting the legal sources of dividends, limit CenterPoint Energy’s subsidiaries’ ability to make payments or other distributions to CenterPoint Energy, and its subsidiaries could agree to contractual restrictions on their ability to make payments or other distributions. Further, Houston Electric has agreed to certain “ring-fencing” measures to increase its financial separateness from CenterPoint Energy. Further ring-fencing measures could be imposed on Houston Electric in the future through legislation or PUCT rules or orders. While current ring-fencing measures have not impacted Houston Electric’s ability to pay dividends to CenterPoint Energy, the imposition of any additional measures impacting CenterPoint Energy’s ability to receive dividends from Houston Electric could materially adversely affect CenterPoint Energy’s cash flows, credit quality, financial condition and results of operations.

CenterPoint Energy’s right to receive assets of any subsidiary, and therefore the right of its creditors to participate in those assets, are structurally subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors. In addition, even if CenterPoint Energy were a creditor of any subsidiary, its rights as a creditor would likely be effectively subordinated to any security interest in the assets of that subsidiary and any senior indebtedness of the subsidiary.

If we are unable to arrange future financings on acceptable terms, our ability to finance our capital expenditures or refinance outstanding indebtedness could be limited.

Our businesses are capital intensive, and we rely on various sources to finance our capital expenditures. For example, we depend on (i) long-term debt, (ii) borrowings through our revolving credit facilities and, for CenterPoint Energy and CERC, commercial paper programs and (iii) if market conditions permit, issuances of additional shares of common or preferred stock by CenterPoint Energy. We may also use such sources to refinance any outstanding indebtedness as it matures. As of December 31, 2021, CenterPoint Energy had $16 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis, which includes $537 million of non-recourse Securitization Bonds. For information on outstanding indebtedness of Houston Electric and CERC as well as future maturities, see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. Our future financing activities may be significantly affected by, among other things:

•general economic and capital market conditions, including inflation;

•credit availability from financial institutions and other lenders;

•investor confidence in us and the markets in which we operate;

•the future performance of our businesses;

•maintenance of acceptable credit ratings;

•unanticipated actions from the Federal Reserve; 

•market expectations regarding our future earnings and cash flows;

•investor willingness to invest in companies associated with fossil fuels; 

•our ability to access capital markets on reasonable terms;

•incremental collateral that may be required due to regulation of derivatives; and

•provisions of relevant securities laws.

18

The Registrants’ current credit ratings and any changes in credit ratings in 2021 and to date in 2022 are discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Other Matters — Impact on Liquidity of a Downgrade in Credit Ratings” in Item 7 of Part II of this report. These credit ratings may not remain in effect for any given period of time and one or more of these ratings may be reduced or withdrawn by a rating agency. The Registrants note that these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold their securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Any future reduction or withdrawal of one or more of the Registrants’ credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on their ability to access capital on acceptable terms. 

An impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets, including intangible assets, equity method investments and an impairment or fair value adjustment could reduce our earnings.

Long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually, as well as when events or changes in circumstances indicates that the carrying value may not be recoverable. During the year ended December 31, 2020, CenterPoint Energy identified and recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $185 million in the Indiana Electric reporting unit. No impairments to goodwill were recorded during the year ended December 31, 2021. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Should the annual goodwill impairment test or another periodic impairment test or an observable transaction indicate the fair value of our assets is less than the carrying value, we would be required to take a non-cash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on equity, increasing balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. A non-cash impairment charge or fair value adjustment could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.

If CenterPoint Energy redeems the ZENS prior to their maturity in 2029, its ultimate tax liability and redemption payments would result in significant cash payments, which would adversely impact its cash flows. Similarly, a significant amount of exchanges of ZENS by ZENS holders could adversely impact CenterPoint Energy’s cash flows. 

CenterPoint Energy has approximately $828 million principal amount of ZENS outstanding as of December 31, 2021. CenterPoint Energy owns shares of ZENS-Related Securities equal to approximately 100% of the reference shares used to calculate its obligation to the holders of the ZENS. CenterPoint Energy may redeem all of the ZENS at any time at a redemption amount per ZENS equal to the higher of the contingent principal amount per ZENS ($38 million in the aggregate, or $2.65 per ZENS, as of December 31, 2021) or the sum of the current market value of the reference shares attributable to one ZENS at the time of redemption. In the event CenterPoint Energy redeems the ZENS, in addition to the redemption amount, it would be required to pay deferred taxes related to the ZENS. CenterPoint Energy’s ultimate tax liability related to the ZENS and ZENS-Related Securities continues to increase by the amount of the tax benefit realized each year. If the ZENS had been redeemed on December 31, 2021, deferred taxes of approximately $539 million would have been payable in 2021, based on 2021 tax rates in effect. In addition, if all the shares of ZENS-Related Securities had been sold on December 31, 2021 to fund the aggregate redemption amount, capital gains taxes of approximately $146 million would have been payable in 2021. Similarly, a significant amount of exchanges of ZENS by ZENS holders could adversely impact CenterPoint Energy’s cash flows. This could happen if CenterPoint Energy’s creditworthiness were to drop or the market for the ZENS were to become illiquid, or for some other reason. While funds for the payment of cash upon exchange of ZENS could be obtained from the sale of the shares of ZENS-Related Securities that CenterPoint Energy owns or from other sources, ZENS exchanges result in a cash outflow because tax deferrals related to the ZENS and ZENS-Related Securities shares would typically be disposed when ZENS are exchanged and ZENS-Related Securities shares are sold.

Dividend requirements associated with CenterPoint Energy’s Series A Preferred Stock subject it to certain risks.

CenterPoint Energy has 800,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding. Any future payments of cash dividends, and the amount of any cash dividends CenterPoint Energy pays, on its Series A Preferred Stock will depend on, among other things, its financial condition, capital requirements and results of operations and the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute cash to CenterPoint Energy, as well as other factors that CenterPoint Energy’s Board of Directors (or an authorized committee thereof) may consider relevant. Any failure to pay scheduled dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock when due could materially adversely impact our ability to access capital on acceptable terms and would likely have a material adverse impact on the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock, Common Stock and CenterPoint Energy’s debt securities and would prohibit CenterPoint Energy, under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, from paying cash dividends on or repurchasing shares of Common Stock (subject to limited exceptions) until such time as CenterPoint Energy has paid all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock.

Further, the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock provide that if dividends on any of the respective shares have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of three or more semi-annual or six or more quarterly dividend periods, whether or not for 

19

consecutive dividend periods, the holders of such shares, voting together as a single class with holders of any and all other series of CenterPoint Energy’s capital stock on parity with its Series A Preferred Stock (as to the payment of dividends and amounts payable on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of CenterPoint Energy’s affairs) upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of a total of two additional members of CenterPoint Energy’s Board of Directors, subject to certain terms and limitations.

Changes in the method of determining LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate, may adversely affect the cost of capital related to outstanding debt and other financial instruments.

LIBOR is currently the basic rate of interest widely used as a global reference for setting interest rates on variable rate loans and other securities. Each of the Registrants’ credit and term loan facilities, including certain facilities or financial instruments entered into by their subsidiaries, use LIBOR as a reference rate. The Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom previously announced that it would phase out LIBOR as a benchmark by 2021, but later expressed support for the extension of certain tenors of U.S. dollar LIBOR until June 2023, as well as the replacement of LIBOR by the SOFR. Accordingly, beginning January 1, 2022, the Financial Conduct Authority ceased publishing one week and two-month U.S. dollar LIBOR and is expected to cease publishing all remaining U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors in June 2023. The Federal Reserve has also advised banks to cease entering into new contracts that use U.S. dollar LIBOR as a reference rate. 

Because SOFR is a broad U.S. Treasury repo financing rate that represents overnight secured funding transactions, it differs fundamentally from LIBOR. Any changes in the methods by which LIBOR is determined or regulatory activity related to LIBOR’s phaseout could cause LIBOR to perform differently than in the past or cease to exist. Changes in the method of calculating LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative rate or benchmark such as SOFR, may adversely affect interest rates and result in higher borrowing costs. This could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. Each of the Registrants’ credit facilities provide for a mechanism to replace LIBOR with possible alternative benchmarks upon certain benchmark replacement events. We are still currently evaluating the impact of any such potential benchmark replacements or unavailability of LIBOR. Also, the overall financial markets may be disrupted as a result of the phase-out or replacement of LIBOR. Uncertainty as to such potential phase-out and alternative benchmark rates or disruption in the financial markets could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Risk Factors Affecting Electric Generation, Transmission and Distribution Businesses (CenterPoint Energy and Houston Electric)

Rate regulation of Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s businesses may delay or deny their ability to earn an expected return and fully recover their costs.

Houston Electric’s rates are regulated by certain municipalities and the PUCT and Indiana Electric’s rates are regulated by the IURC. Their rates are set in comprehensive base rate proceedings (i.e., general rate cases) based on an analysis of their invested capital, their expenses and other factors in a designated test year (often either fully or partially historic). Each of these rate proceedings is subject to third-party intervention and appeal, and the timing of a general base rate proceeding may be out of Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s control. For Houston Electric, a general base rate proceeding is required 48 months from the date of the order setting rates in its most recent comprehensive rate proceeding, unless the PUCT issues an order extending the deadline to file that general base rate proceeding. For Indiana Electric, a general base rate proceeding is required prior to the expiration of its TDSIC plan, which expires on December 31, 2023. Houston Electric and Indiana Electric can make no assurance that their respective base rate proceedings will result in favorable adjustments to their rates, in full cost recovery or approval of other requested items, including, among other things, capital structure and ROE. Moreover, these base rate proceedings have caused in certain instances, and in the future could cause, Houston Electric and Indiana Electric to recover their investments below their requested levels (such as in the most recent Houston Electric general rate case), below the national average for utilities or below recently approved levels for other utilities in their respective jurisdictions. 

The rates that Houston Electric and Indiana Electric are allowed to charge may not match their costs at any given time, a situation referred to as “regulatory lag.” For Houston Electric and Indiana Electric, several interim rate adjustment mechanisms have been implemented to reduce the effects of regulatory lag (for example, DCRF, TCOS, TDSIC, DSMA and RCRA Mechanism), although certain of these mechanisms do not provide for recovery of operations and maintenance expenses. These adjustment mechanisms are subject to the applicable regulatory body’s approval and are subject to limitations that may reduce Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s ability to adjust rates. For further information on rate case proceedings and interim rate adjustment mechanisms, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of Part II of this report. See also “—The February 2021 Winter Storm...” below for further information.

20

Houston Electric and Indiana Electric can make no assurance that filings for such mechanisms will result in favorable adjustments to rates or in full cost recovery. Notwithstanding the application of such rate adjustment mechanisms, the regulatory process by which rates are determined is subject to change as a result of the legislative process or rulemaking, as the case may be, and may not always be available or result in rates that will produce recovery of Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s costs or enable them to earn their authorized return. Changes to the interim adjustment mechanisms could result in an increase in regulatory lag or otherwise impact Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s ability to recover their costs in a timely manner. Additionally, inherent in the regulatory process is some level of risk that jurisdictional regulatory authorities may initiate investigations of the prudence of operating expenses incurred or capital investments made by Houston Electric or Indiana Electric and deny the full recovery of their cost of service in rates. To the extent the regulatory process does not allow Houston Electric and Indiana Electric to make a full and timely recovery of appropriate costs, their financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 

Disruptions at power generation facilities owned by third parties or Indiana Electric or directives issued by regulatory authorities could cause interruptions in Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s ability to provide transmission and distribution services and adversely affect their reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

Houston Electric owns the transmission and distribution infrastructure that delivers electric power to its customers, but it does not own or operate any power generation facilities. As allowed by a new law enacted by the Texas legislature after the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, Houston Electric is now leasing mobile generation units that can provide temporary emergency electric energy and aid in restoring power to some customers during certain widespread power outages that are impacting its distribution system. In February 2021, the ERCOT regulated Texas electric system experienced extreme winter weather conditions and an unprecedented power generation shortage. The amount of electricity generated by the state’s power generation companies was insufficient to meet the amount demanded by customers. This resulted in ERCOT directing TDUs to significantly Load Shed, which caused outages across the ERCOT electric grid of Texas, including in Houston Electric’s service territory. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. If power generation capacity is severely disrupted again or is inadequate for any reason, or if ERCOT needs to issue directives to TDUs (such as Houston Electric) to Load Shed, Houston Electric’s transmission and distribution services may be diminished or interrupted; it could have claims and litigation filed against it; and its reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. For more information, see “— Houston Electric’s use of temporary ...” and “— The February 2021 Winter Storm ...”

 Similarly, while Indiana Electric generates power, it is also party to a number of PPAs with third parties. Indiana Electric’s power generation may be disrupted or otherwise insufficient, if third parties do not deliver required power under our PPAs, power generation capacity is inadequate or MISO issues directives to its members (such as Indiana Electric) to implement controlled outages as a result of an emergency or due to reliability issues. If such disruptions were to occur, Indiana Electric’s transmission and distribution services may be diminished or interrupted; it could have claims and litigation filed against it; and its reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 

Additionally, Indiana Electric’s generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, increased purchase power costs and inadvertent releases of coal ash and/or other contaminants with a significant environmental impact. These operational risks can arise from circumstances such as facility shutdowns or malfunctions due to equipment failure or operator error; interruption of fuel supply or increased prices of fuel as contracts expire; disruptions in the delivery of electricity; inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements; labor disputes; or natural disasters, all of which could adversely affect Indiana Electric’s business. Further, Indiana Electric currently relies on coal for substantially all of its generation capacity. Currently, Indiana Electric purchases substantially all of its coal supply from a single, unrelated party and, although the coal supply is under long-term contract, the loss of this supplier or transportation interruptions could adversely affect Indiana Electric’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In 2021, Indiana Electric experienced coal supply shortages due to labor shortages that the coal industry is experiencing. While the coal supply shortage that Indiana Electric experienced did not impact its ability to deliver electricity to its customers, labor shortages as well as supply shortages in the future, whether caused by insufficient supply or supplier bankruptcy or other regulatory and supply issues in the mining industry, may lead to increased cost and have a material adverse impact on our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See “— Continued disruptions to the supply...” 

Houston Electric’s receivables are primarily concentrated in a small number of REPs, and any delay or default in such payments could adversely affect Houston Electric’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Houston Electric’s receivables from the distribution of electricity are collected from REPs that supply the electricity. As of December 31, 2021, Houston Electric provided electric delivery service to approximately 59 REPs. Adverse economic 

21

conditions, such as the impact of COVID-19, the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, structural problems in the market served by ERCOT, inflation or financial difficulties of one or more REPs could impair the ability of these REPs to pay for Houston Electric’s services or could cause them to delay such payments. Houston Electric depends on these REPs to remit payments on a timely basis. Houston Electric’s PUCT-approved tariff outlines the remedies available to Houston Electric in the event that a REP defaults on amounts owed. Among the remedies available to Houston Electric are seeking recourse against any cash deposit, letter of credit, or surety bond provided by the REP or implementing mutually agreeable terms with the REP. Another remedy is to require that customers be shifted to another REP or a provider of last resort. Houston Electric thus remains at risk for payments related to services provided prior to the shift to another REP or the provider of last resort. A significant portion of Houston Electric’s billed receivables from REPs are from affiliates of NRG and Vistra Energy Corp. Houston Electric’s aggregate billed receivables balance from REPs as of December 31, 2021 was $207 million. Approximately 40% and 18% of this amount was owed by affiliates of NRG and Vistra Energy Corp., respectively. Any delay or default in payment by REPs could adversely affect Houston Electric’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If a REP was unable to meet its obligations, it could consider, among various options, restructuring under the bankruptcy laws, in which event such REP might seek to avoid honoring its obligations, and claims might be made regarding prior payments Houston Electric had received from such REP. For example, following the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, multiple REPs filed for bankruptcy. We are currently capturing the amounts owed by the REPs as a permitted regulatory asset for bad debt expenses, which will be subject to a reasonableness review by the PUCT when we seek recovery in our next base rate case.

Indiana Electric’s execution of its generation transition plan, including its IRP, are subject to various risks, including timely recovery of capital investments and increased costs and risks related to the timing and cost of development and/or construction of new generation facilities. 

Indiana requires each electric utility to perform and submit an IRP every three years, unless extended, to the IURC that uses economic modeling to consider the costs and risks associated with available resource options to provide reliable electric service for the next 20-year period on a periodic basis. In February 2018, as part of its electric generation transition plan, Indiana Electric received approval from the IURC to construct a 50 MW universal solar array and a plan to retrofit its largest, most efficient coal-fired generation unit (Culley Unit 3). With respect to its 2019/2020 IRP submitted to the IURC in June 2020, Indiana Electric identified a preferred generation resource that includes the replacement of 730 MW of coal-fired generation facilities with a significant portion composed of renewables, including solar and wind, supported by dispatchable natural gas combustion turbines, including a pipeline to serve such natural gas generation, as well as storage. While the IURC does not approve or reject the IRP, the process involves the issuance of a staff report that provides comments on the IRP. On November 17, 2021, Indiana Electric received the staff report on the IRP. Further, there is no guarantee that the IURC will approve the requests included in any of Indiana Electric’s future filed petitions relating to its IRP. 

Even if a generation project is approved, risks associated with the development or construction of any new generation exist, including new legislation restricting or delaying new generation, moratorium legislation, the ability to procure resources needed to build at a reasonable cost, scarcity of resources and labor, ability to appropriately estimate costs of new generation, the effects of potential construction delays, project scope changes, and cost overruns and the ability to meet capacity requirements. For example, we, along with our developers of the Posey solar project, have recently announced plans to downsize the Posey solar project from 300 MW to 200 MW due to supply chain issues experienced in the energy industry, the rising cost of commodities and community feedback. For additional information, see “— Continued disruptions to the supply...” Furthermore, we have announced our intent to acquire and/or develop additional solar and wind facilities as part of our capital plan. However, we have not yet entered into definitive agreements with developers for the acquisition and/or development of such additional projects, and we face significant competition with other bidders for a limited number of such generation facilities that developers plan to construct, including those that are in an acceptable position on the MISO interconnection queue. As a result, suitable generation facility project candidates may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable, or the expected benefits of a completed facility may not be realized fully or at all, or may not be realized in the anticipated timeframe. If we are unable to complete or acquire such generation facilities, or if they do not perform as anticipated, our future growth, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected.

Houston Electric and Indiana Electric, as a member of ERCOT and MISO, respectively, could be subject to higher costs for system improvements, as well as fines or other sanctions as a result of FERC mandatory reliability standards.

Houston Electric and Indiana Electric are members of ERCOT and MISO, respectively, which serve the electric transmission needs of their applicable regions. As a result of their respective participation in ERCOT and MISO, Houston Electric and Indiana Electric do not have operational control over their transmission facilities and are subject to certain costs for improvements to these regional electric transmission systems. In addition, the FERC has jurisdiction with respect to ensuring the reliability of electric transmission service, including transmission facilities owned by Houston Electric and other utilities within ERCOT and Indiana Electric and other utilities within MISO, respectively. The FERC has designated the NERC as the 

22

ERO to promulgate standards, under FERC oversight, for all owners, operators and users of the bulk power system. The FERC has approved the delegation by the NERC of authority for reliability in ERCOT to the Texas RE, a Texas non-profit corporation and for reliability in the portion of MISO that includes Indiana Electric to ReliabilityFirst Corporation, a Delaware non-profit corporation. Compliance with mandatory reliability standards may subject Houston Electric and Indiana Electric to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures, which may not be fully recoverable in rates. While Houston Electric and Indiana Electric have received minor fines in the past for noncompliance, if Houston Electric or Indiana Electric were to be found to be in noncompliance with applicable mandatory reliability standards again, they would be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, which could range as high as over a million dollars per violation per day, and non-monetary penalties, such as having to file a mitigation plan to prevent recurrence of a similar violation and having certain milestones in such plan tracked. 

In connection with the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, there have been calls for reform of the Texas electric market, some measure of which, if implemented, could have material adverse impacts on Houston Electric.

Various governmental and regulatory agencies and other entities have called for or are conducting inquiries and investigations into the February 2021 Winter Storm Event and the efforts made by various entities to prepare for, and respond to, this event, including the electricity generation shortfall issues. Such agencies and entities include the United States Congress, FERC, NERC, Texas RE, ERCOT, Texas government entities and officials such as the Texas Governor’s office, the Texas Legislature, the Texas Attorney General, the PUCT, the City of Houston and other municipal and county entities in Houston Electric’s service area, among other entities. In addition to questions around preparation and response, some federal and other officials, as well as members of the public and media, have called for reviews and reforms of the Texas electric market, including whether it should continue to be governed by ERCOT or instead be subject to FERC jurisdiction and regulation by joining an ISO such as MISO, as well as the division of the market between power generators, TDUs (such as Houston Electric) and REPs. There are significant uncertainties around these discussions and whether any market structure or governance changes will result therefrom, but if any such reviews and reform efforts ultimately result in changes to how the Texas electric market is structured or regulated, such changes could have a material adverse impact on Houston Electric’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See “—The February 2021 Winter Storm...” below and Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 

Houston Electric’s use of temporary mobile generation resources is subject to various risks, including related failure to obtain and deploy sufficient mobile generation units, potential performance issues and allegations about Houston Electric’s deployment of the resources (including the planning, execution, and effectiveness of the same), regulatory and environmental requirements, and timely recovery of capital. 

Following the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, the Texas legislature passed a new law, effective September 1, 2021, that allows TDUs, like Houston Electric, to lease and operate temporary back-up generation resources during widespread power outages where ERCOT has ordered a TDU to shed load or the TDU’s distribution facilities are not being fully served by the bulk power system under normal operations. In response to this legislation, Houston Electric has entered into short-term and long-term leases with a third party provider to obtain mobile generation units. 

However, if Houston Electric is otherwise unable to deploy a sufficient number of mobile generation units in time to respond to a particular event; if the mobile generation units fail to perform as intended; if Houston Electric is otherwise unable to provide back-up generation resources and restore power as intended; or if the use of mobile generation units or their failure to perform causes or is alleged to cause any personal injury, property damage, or other damage or loss due to allegations that it failed to deploy such units reasonably or effectively and failed to respond to particular power outages, Houston Electric could be subject to claims, demands, litigation, liability, regulatory scrutiny, and loss of reputation. As noted above, the legislation prescribes specific and limited use for the mobile generation units, and Houston Electric’s mobile generation units have limited generation capacity, such that in future events customers could still be without power despite deployment of the mobile units. 

While Houston Electric has insurance coverage and indemnity rights for its use of mobile generation units, if its insurers or indemnitors fail to meet their indemnity obligations, Houston Electric could be liable for personal injury, property damage, or other damage or loss. Further, the mobile generation units are subject to various environmental regulations and permitting requirements, which could have an impact on Houston Electric’s ability to use these units, and noncompliance with which could subject Houston Electric to further potential liability. The use of mobile generation units is also subject to various requirements of the new legislation, and failure to comply with them could subject Houston Electric to additional liability as well as challenges to its use of mobile generation in general. While Houston Electric will seek to recover the costs of the lease and use of mobile generation units, such recovery is not certain, and Houston Electric’s inability to recover its costs could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For further information, see “— Rate Regulation of Houston Electric’s...”, “— Our insurance coverage may not...” and “— We are subject to operational...” 

23

Risk Factors Affecting Natural Gas’ Business (CenterPoint Energy and CERC)

Rate regulation of Natural Gas may delay or deny its ability to earn an expected return and fully recover its costs.

Natural Gas’ rates are regulated by certain municipalities (in Texas only) and state commissions based on an analysis of Natural Gas’ invested capital, expenses and other factors in a test year (often either fully or partially historic) in comprehensive base rate proceedings, subject to periodic review and adjustment. Each of these proceedings is subject to third-party intervention and appeal, and the timing of a general base rate proceeding may be out of Natural Gas’ control. During 2022, Natural Gas has a pending rate case and a proceeding considering recovery of extraordinary natural gas costs during the February 2021 Winter Storm Event in Minnesota. In the Minnesota extraordinary natural gas cost proceeding, various parties have proposed significant disallowances for all natural gas utilities ranging from $45 million to $409 million for CenterPoint Energy and CERC. Natural Gas can make no assurance that these respective base rate and cost recovery proceedings will result in favorable adjustments to its rates, full or adequate cost recovery or approval of other requested items, including, among other things, capital structure and ROE. These base rate proceedings could cause Natural Gas to recover its investments at rates below its requested level, the national average for utilities or recently approved levels for other utilities in those jurisdictions.

The rates that Natural Gas is allowed to charge may not match its costs at any given time, resulting in what is referred to as “regulatory lag.” For example, the MPUC has ordered that the amortization period for extraordinary gas costs resulting from the February 2021 Winter Storm Event be increased from 27-months to 63-months beginning on January 1, 2022, and that CERC forego recovery of the associated carrying costs. Though several interim rate adjustment mechanisms have been approved by jurisdictional regulatory authorities and implemented by Natural Gas to reduce the effects of regulatory lag (for example, CSIA, DRR, GRIP, RRA and RSP), such adjustment mechanisms are subject to the applicable regulatory body’s approval, which we cannot assure would be approved, and are subject to certain limitations that may reduce or otherwise impede Natural Gas’ ability to adjust its rates or result in rates below those requested by Natural Gas.

Natural Gas can make no assurance that filings for such mechanisms will result in favorable adjustments to rates. Notwithstanding the application of the rate mechanisms discussed above, the regulatory process by which rates are determined is subject to change as a result of the legislative process or rulemaking, as the case may be, and may not always be available or result in rates that will produce recovery of Natural Gas’ costs or enable Natural Gas to earn an expected return. Changes to the interim adjustment mechanisms could result in an increase in regulatory lag or otherwise impact Natural Gas’ ability to recover its costs in a timely manner. Additionally, inherent in the regulatory process is some level of risk that jurisdictional regulatory authorities may initiate investigations of the prudence of operating expenses incurred or capital investments made by Natural Gas and deny the full recovery of Natural Gas’ cost of service or the full recovery of incurred natural gas costs in rates. To the extent the regulatory process does not allow Natural Gas to make a full and timely recovery of appropriate costs, its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. For further information on rate case proceedings and interim rate adjustment mechanisms, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of Part II of this report.

Unlike CERC, Indiana Gas, SIGECO’s natural gas distribution business and VEDO must seek approval by the IURC and PUCO, as applicable, for long-term financing authority. This authority allows these utilities the flexibility to enter into various financing arrangements. In the event that the IURC or PUCO do not approve these utilities’ respective financing authorities, they may not be able to fully execute their financing plans and their respective financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. For more information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Regulatory Matters.” 

Access to natural gas supplies and pipeline transmission and storage capacity are essential components of reliable service for Natural Gas’ customers.

Natural Gas depends on third-party service providers to maintain an adequate supply of natural gas and for available storage and intrastate and interstate pipeline capacity to satisfy its customers’ needs, all of which are critical to system reliability. Substantially all of Natural Gas’ natural gas supply is purchased from intrastate and interstate pipelines. If Natural Gas is unable to secure an independent natural gas supply of its own or through its affiliates or if third-party service providers fail to timely deliver natural gas to meet Natural Gas’ requirements, the resulting decrease in natural gas supply in Natural Gas’ service territories could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, a significant disruption, whether through reduced intrastate and interstate pipeline transmission or storage capacity or other events affecting natural gas supply, including, but not limited to, operational failures, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, severe winter weather conditions, acts of terrorism or cyberattacks or changes in legislative or regulatory requirements, 

24

could also adversely affect Natural Gas’ businesses. Further, to the extent that Natural Gas’ natural gas requirements cannot be met through access to or continued use of existing natural gas infrastructure or if additional infrastructure, including onshore and offshore exploration and production facilities, gathering and processing systems and pipeline and storage capacity is not constructed at a rate that satisfies demand, then Natural Gas’ operations could be negatively affected. For additional risks related to the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, see “—The February 2021 Winter Storm...” below and Note 7 to the consolidated condensed financial statements for further information.

Natural Gas is subject to fluctuations in notional natural gas prices, which could affect the ability of its suppliers and customers to meet their obligations or may impact our operations which could adversely affect CERC’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

Natural Gas is subject to risk associated with changes in the notional price of natural gas. Increases in natural gas prices might affect Natural Gas’ ability to collect balances due from customers and could create the potential for uncollectible accounts expense to exceed the recoverable levels built into tariff rates. In addition, a sustained period of high natural gas prices could (i) decrease demand for natural gas in the areas in which Natural Gas operates, thereby resulting in decreased sales and revenues and (ii) increase the risk that Natural Gas’ suppliers or customers fail or are unable to meet their obligations. An increase in natural gas prices would also increase working capital requirements by increasing the investment that must be made to maintain natural gas inventory levels. For additional risks related to the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, see “—The February 2021 Winter Storm...” below and Note 7 to the consolidated condensed financial statements for further information.

A decline in CERC’s credit rating could result in CERC having to provide collateral under its shipping arrangements or to purchase natural gas, which consequently would increase its cash requirements and adversely affect its financial condition.

If CERC’s credit rating were to decline, it might be required to post cash collateral under its shipping arrangements or to purchase natural gas. If a credit rating downgrade and the resultant cash collateral requirement were to occur at a time when CERC was experiencing significant working capital requirements or otherwise lacked liquidity, CERC’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. For additional risks related to the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, see “—The February 2021 Winter Storm...” below and Note 7 to the consolidated condensed financial statements for further information.

Natural Gas must compete with alternate energy sources, which could result in less natural gas delivered and have an adverse impact on CERC’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Natural Gas competes primarily with alternate energy sources such as electricity and other fuel sources. In some areas, intrastate pipelines, other natural gas distributors and marketers also compete directly with Natural Gas for natural gas sales to end users. In addition, as a result of federal regulatory changes affecting interstate pipelines, natural gas marketers operating on these pipelines may be able to bypass Natural Gas’ facilities and market, sell and/or transport natural gas directly to commercial and industrial customers. Any reduction in the amount of natural gas delivered by Natural Gas as a result of competition with alternate energy sources may have an adverse impact on CERC’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Risk Factors Affecting Energy Systems Group’s Business (CenterPoint Energy)

Energy Systems Group’s operations could be adversely affected by a number of factors.

Energy Systems Group’s business results are dependent on a number of factors. The industry in which Energy Systems Group operates is competitive and many of the contracts are subject to a bidding process. Should Energy Systems Group be unsuccessful in bidding contracts (for example, federal Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity contracts), results of operations could be impacted. Through competitive bidding, the volume of contracted work could vary significantly from year to year. Further, to the extent there are unanticipated cost increases in completion of the contracted work or issues arise where amounts due for work performed may not be collected, the profit margin realized on any single project could be reduced. Changes in legislation and regulations impacting the sectors in which the customers served by Energy Systems Group operate could adversely impact operating results. Additionally, Energy Systems Group’s business is subject to other risks including, but not limited to, the following: the discontinuation of the federal ESPC and UESC programs; the inability of customers to finance projects; failure to appropriately design, construct or operate projects; increased project delays and backlogs, particularly in the federal sector, increases in costs and shortages in supply materials due to the COVID-19 pandemic and other factors; cancellation of projects by customers or reductions in the scope of the projects; and obligations related to warranties, guarantees and other contractual and legal obligations. 

25

Energy Systems Group’s business has performance and warranty obligations, some of which are guaranteed by CenterPoint Energy. 

In the normal course of business, Energy Systems Group issues performance bonds and other forms of assurance that commit it to operate facilities, pay vendors or subcontractors and support warranty obligations. As the parent company, CenterPoint Energy or Vectren has, and will, from time to time guarantee its subsidiaries’ commitments. These guarantees do not represent incremental consolidated obligations; rather, they represent parental guarantees of subsidiary obligations to allow the subsidiary the flexibility to conduct business without posting other forms of collateral. Neither CenterPoint Energy nor Vectren has been called upon to satisfy any obligations pursuant to these parental guarantees to date. 

Risk Factors Affecting Our Businesses

We are subject to operational and financial risks and liabilities arising from environmental laws and regulations, including regulation of CCR and climate change legislation. We could also experience reduced demand for our services, including certain local initiatives to prohibit new natural gas service and increase electrification initiatives in jurisdictions served by Natural Gas.

Our operations are subject to stringent and complex laws and regulations pertaining to the environment. As an owner or operator of natural gas pipelines, distribution systems and storage, electric generating facilities and electric transmission and distribution systems, and the facilities that support these systems, we must comply with these laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, including among others, restricting the use of fossil fuels through future climate legislation or regulation, restricting the use of natural gas-fired appliances in new homes, limiting airborne emissions from generating facilities, restricting the way we manage wastes, including wastewater discharges and air emissions and requiring remedial action or monitoring to mitigate environmental actions caused by our operations or attributable to former operations. We may need to spend substantial amounts and devote other resources from time to time to comply with these requirements. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, revocation of permits, the imposition of remedial actions, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict joint and several liability for costs required to clean, restore and monitor sites where hazardous substances have been stored, disposed or released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. 

In April 2015, the EPA finalized its CCR Rule, which regulates ash as non-hazardous material under the RCRA. The final rule allows beneficial reuse of ash, and the majority of the ash generated by Indiana Electric’s generating plants will continue to be beneficially reused. In July 2018, the EPA released its final CCR Rule Phase I Reconsideration which extended the deadline to October 31, 2020 for ceasing placement of ash in ponds that exceed groundwater protections standards or that fail to meet location restrictions. In August 2019, the EPA proposed additional “Part A” amendments to its CCR Rule with respect to beneficial reuse of ash and other materials. Further “Part B” amendments, which related to alternate liners for CCR surface impoundments and the surface impoundment closure process, were published in March 2020. The Part A amendments were finalized in August 2020, and the Part B amendments were finalized in November 2020 and extended the deadline to cease placement of ash in ponds to April 11, 2021. The EPA published an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking on legacy CCR surface impoundments in October 2020, and in December 2020 provided new data and requested public comment as part of the Agency’s reconsideration of its definition of beneficial reuse. The Part A amendments do not restrict Indiana Electric’s current beneficial reuse of its fly ash. The potential effects of future amendments to the CCR Rule are uncertain at this time.

Regulatory agencies have also adopted, and from time to time consider adopting, new legislation and/or modifying existing laws and regulations to reduce GHGs. There continues to be a wide-ranging policy and regulatory debate, both nationally and internationally, regarding the potential impact of GHGs and possible means for their regulation. The EPA has expanded its existing GHG emissions reporting requirements, which could also lead to further regulation of GHGs by the EPA. The recent trend in environmental regulation has been to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may impact the environment, which is expected to continue under the Biden administration. For example, shortly after taking office in January 2021, President Biden issued a series of executive orders designed to address climate change, as well as an executive order requiring agencies to review environmental actions taken by the Trump administration. The Biden administration also issued a memorandum to departments and agencies to refrain from proposing or issuing rules until a departmental or agency head appointed or designated by the Biden administration has reviewed and approved the rule. President Biden also recommitted the United States to the Paris Agreement, which can be expected to drive a renewed regulatory push to require further GHG emission reductions from the energy sector and proceeded to lead negotiations at the global climate conference in Glasgow, Scotland. On April 22, 2021, President Biden announced new goals of 50% reduction of economy-wide GHG emissions and 

26

100% carbon-free electricity by 2035, which formed the basis of the United States’ commitments announced in Glasgow. Reentry into the Paris Agreement, revised climate commitments coming out of the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference held in Glasgow, Scotland and President Biden’s executive orders may result in the development of additional regulations or changes to existing regulations. Potential future restrictions include, among other things, the United States enacting additional GHG regulations and mandated financial, emissions and other disclosures. As a distributor and transporter of natural gas, Natural Gas’ revenues, operating costs and capital requirements could be adversely affected as a result of any regulatory action that would require installation of new control technologies or a modification of its operations or that would have the effect of reducing the consumption of natural gas. Thus, there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be greater than the amounts we currently anticipate. Likewise, incentives to conserve energy or use energy sources other than natural gas could result in a decrease in demand for our services. For further discussion, see “Business—Environmental Matters” in Item 1 and “ —Natural Gas must compete with...” 

Evolving investor sentiment related to the use of fossil fuels and initiatives to restrict continued production of fossil fuels may have substantial impacts on CenterPoint Energy’s electric generation and natural gas businesses. For example, because Indiana Electric’s current generating facilities substantially rely on coal for their operations, certain financial institutions choose not to participate in CenterPoint Energy’s financing arrangements. Further, some investors may choose to not invest in CenterPoint Energy due to CenterPoint Energy’s use of fossil fuels. Also, certain cities in CenterPoint Energy’s Natural Gas operational footprint have adopted initiatives to prohibit the construction of new natural gas facilities that would provide service and focus on electrification. For example, Minneapolis has adopted carbon emission reduction goals in an effort to decrease reliance on fossil gas. Also, Minnesota cities may consider seeking legislative authority for the ability to enact voluntary enhanced energy standards for all development projects. Certain state and local governments in states such as New York and California have also passed, or are considering, legislation banning the use of natural gas-fired appliances in new homes, which could affect consumer use of natural gas. Should such bans be enacted within Natural Gas’ operational footprint, they could adversely affect consumer demand for natural gas. Any such initiatives and legislation could adversely affect CenterPoint Energy’s results of operations.

CenterPoint Energy is subject to operational and financial risks and liabilities associated with the implementation of and efforts to achieve its carbon emission reduction goals.

In September 2021, CenterPoint Energy announced its new net zero emission goals for Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2035 and a 20-30% reduction in Scope 3 emissions by 2035 as compared to 2021 levels. CenterPoint Energy’s analysis and plan for execution requires it to make a number of assumptions. These goals and underlying assumptions involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees. Should one or more of CenterPoint Energy’s underlying assumptions prove incorrect, its actual results and ability to achieve net zero emissions by 2035 could differ materially from its expectations. Certain of the assumptions that could impact CenterPoint Energy’s ability to meet its net zero emissions goals include, but are not limited to: emission levels, service territory size and capacity needs remaining in line with expectations; regulatory approval of Indiana Electric’s generation transition plan; impacts of future environmental regulations or legislation; impact of future carbon pricing regulations or legislation, including a future carbon tax; price, availability and regulation of carbon offsets; price of fuel, such as natural gas; cost of energy generation technologies, such as wind and solar, natural gas and storage solutions; adoption of alternative energy by the public, including adoption of electric vehicles; rate of technology innovation with regards to alternative energy resources; CenterPoint Energy’s ability to implement its modernization plans for its pipelines and facilities; the ability to complete and implement generation alternatives to Indiana Electric’s coal generation and retirement dates of Indiana Electric’s coal facilities by 2035; the ability to construct and/or permit new natural gas pipelines; the ability to procure resources needed to build at a reasonable cost, the lack of or scarcity of resources and labor, any project cancellations, construction delays or overruns and the ability to appropriately estimate costs of new generation; impact of any supply chain disruptions; changes in applicable standards or methodologies; and enhancement of energy efficiencies. Our businesses may face increased scrutiny from investors and other stakeholders related to our sustainability activities, including the goals, targets, and objectives that we announce, and our methodologies and timelines for pursuing them. If our sustainability practices do not meet investor or other stakeholder expectations and standards, which continue to evolve, our reputation, our ability to attract or retain employees, and our attractiveness as an investment or business partner could be negatively affected. Similarly, our failure or perceived failure to pursue or fulfill our sustainability-focused goals, targets, and objectives, to comply with ethical, environmental, or other standards, regulations, or expectations, or to satisfy various reporting standards with respect to these matters, within the timelines we announce, or at all, could adversely affect our business or reputation, as well as expose us to government enforcement actions and private litigation.

Developing and implementing plans for compliance with voluntary climate commitments can lead to additional capital, personnel and operation and maintenance expenditures and could significantly affect the economic position of existing facilities and proposed projects. To the extent that we believe any of these costs are recoverable in rates, cost recovery could be resisted 

27

by our regulators and our regulators might attempt to deny or defer timely recovery of these costs. Moreover, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of achieving our emissions reduction goals, or the various implementation aspects, on our system reliability or our financial condition and results of operations.

Continued disruptions to the global supply chain may lead to higher prices for goods and services and impact our operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to execute our capital plan and on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The global supply chain has experienced and is expected to continue to experience disruptions due to a multitude of factors, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, labor shortages, resource availability, long lead time, inflation and weather, and these disruptions have adversely impacted the utility industry. We have experienced disruptions to our supply chain, as well as increased prices, and we may continue to experience this in the future. For example, we, along with the developer of the project, recently announced plans to downsize the previously announced solar array to be built in Posey County, Indiana from 300 MW to 200 MW due to supply chain issues experienced in the energy industry, the rising cost of commodities and community feedback. Additionally, we, as well as other companies in our industry, have experienced difficulties in procuring certain materials necessary for the transmission and distribution of power, such as transformers, wires, cables and meters. We may continue to experience difficulties in procuring these resources and others necessary to operate our businesses in the future, and if we were to experience other significant supply chain disruptions in the future, we may not be able to procure the resources, including labor, needed to fully execute on our ten-year capital plan or achieve our net zero emission goals. Even if we are able to procure the necessary resources, we might not be able to do so at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner which could result in project cancellations or scope changes, delays, cost overruns and under-recovery of costs. If we are unable to fully execute on capital plans as a result of supply chain disruptions, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.

The February 2021 Winter Storm Event caused severe disruptions in certain of our jurisdictions and could have a material adverse impact to our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. 

In February 2021, certain of our jurisdictions experienced an extreme and unprecedented winter weather event with prolonged freezing temperatures that resulted in an electricity generation shortage in our Houston Electric service area, which impacted our businesses. The electricity generation shortages necessitated ERCOT to direct TDUs, including Houston Electric, to implement controlled outages in their respective service areas. In compliance with ERCOT’s directives and emergency procedures, Houston Electric implemented controlled electricity outages across its service territory, resulting in a substantial number of its customers (on certain days over a million residents) being without power, many for extended periods of time. ERCOT has stated that the electric outages were necessary to avoid prolonged large-scale, state-wide blackouts and long-term damage to the electric system in Texas. As a result, Houston Electric’s sales of transmission and distribution services were diminished or interrupted for several days. Additionally, the electricity generation shortage resulted in wholesale electricity prices increasing to their maximum allowed limit. 

During and in the aftermath of the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, the Texas legislature revised applicable statutes and granted the PUCT and ERCOT additional regulatory authority, both oversight and enforcement, that focuses on ensuring that ERCOT market participants, including power generation facilities and TDUs (like Houston Electric), have sufficient winterization standards and protection. Houston Electric is in compliance with the requirements applicable to it. If any additional protections are required in the future, complying with these new protections may increase the cost of electricity and reduce consumption of electricity by ultimate consumers in Houston Electric’s service territory, which could adversely affect Houston Electric’s results of operations. Any potential decreases in customer usage due to higher electricity prices charged by REPs may not result in increased base rates charged by Houston Electric for its services until its next general base rate proceeding. For further information on Houston Electric’s regulatory proceedings, see “— Rate regulation of Houston Electric’s...”

Furthermore, the February 2021 Winter Storm Event also impacted the wholesale prices CenterPoint Energy and CERC paid for natural gas and their ability to service customers in their Natural Gas service territories, including due to the reduction in available natural gas capacity, impacts to CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s natural gas supply portfolio activities, and their ability to transport natural gas, among other things. In particular, the February 2021 Winter Storm Event also caused severe disruptions in the markets from which CenterPoint Energy and CERC sourced a significant portion of their natural gas for their utility operations, resulting in extraordinary increases in the price of natural gas to CenterPoint Energy and CERC. From February 12, 2021 to February 22, 2021, CenterPoint Energy spent approximately an incremental $2.2 billion more on natural gas supplies compared to plan. These amounts are based on final settlements of supplier and pipeline invoices from February 2021, including amounts negotiated to resolve disputes with various suppliers as of January 2022. 

28

In addition to the risks discussed in this risk factor, for further information on risks related to: 

•the arranging of future financings on acceptable terms, see “— If we are unable to...”; 

•the ability to receive payment from a REP, see “— Houston Electric’s receivables are primarily...” 

•the ability to seek recovery of the additional costs of natural gas, see “— Rate regulation of Natural Gas...”; 

•access to natural gas supplies, see “— Access to natural gas supplies...”;

•various regulatory, investigations, litigation or other proceedings, see “— In connection with the February...” and Note 16 to the consolidated condensed financial statements;

•the fluctuations in notional natural gas prices, see “— Natural Gas is subject to...”; and

•the impact of a decline in CERC’s credit rating, see “— A decline in CERC’s credit ...”

Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities or perform certain corporate functions.

Our performance depends on the successful operation of our facilities. Operating these facilities involves many risks inherent in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity and in the delivery of natural gas that could result in substantial losses or other damages. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following:

•operator error or failure of equipment or processes, including failure to follow appropriate safety protocols;

•the handling of hazardous equipment or materials that could result in serious personal injury, loss of life and environmental and property damage;

•operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements;

•labor disputes; 

•information technology or financial and billing system failures, including those due to the implementation and integration of new technology, that impair our information technology infrastructure, reporting systems or disrupt normal business operations;

•failure to obtain in a timely manner and at reasonable prices the necessary fuel, such as coal and natural gas, building materials or other items needed to operate our facilities; 

•information technology failure that affects our ability to access customer information or causes us to lose confidential or proprietary data that materially and adversely affects our reputation or exposes us to legal claims; and

•catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, leaks, floods, droughts, hurricanes, ice storms, flooding, terrorism, wildfires, pandemic health events or other similar occurrences, including any environmental impacts related thereto, which catastrophic events may require participation in mutual assistance efforts by us or other utilities to assist in power restoration efforts.

Such events may result in a decrease or elimination of revenue from our facilities, an increase in the cost of operating our facilities or delays in cash collections, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

Our revenues and results of operations are seasonal.

A significant portion of Houston Electric’s revenues is derived from rates that it collects from each REP based on the amount of electricity it delivers on behalf of such REP. Similarly, Indiana Electric’s revenues are derived from rates it charges its customers to provide electricity. Natural Gas’ revenues are primarily derived from natural gas sales. Consequently, Houston Electric’s, Indiana Electric’s and Natural Gas’ revenues and results of operations are subject to seasonality, weather conditions and other changes in electricity and natural gas usage, as applicable. Houston Electric’s revenues are generally higher during the warmer months. As in certain past years, unusually mild weather in the warmer months could diminish Houston Electric’s results of operations and harm its financial condition. Conversely, as in certain past years, extreme warm weather conditions could increase Houston Electric’s results of operations in a manner that would not likely be annually recurring. A significant portion of Indiana Electric’s sales are for space heating and cooling. Consequently, as in certain past years, Indiana Electric’s results of operations may be adversely affected by warmer-than-normal heating season weather or colder-than-normal cooling season weather, while more extreme seasonal weather conditions could increase Indiana Electric’s results of operations in a manner that would not likely be annually recurring. Natural Gas’ revenues are customarily higher during the winter months. As in certain past years, unusually mild weather in the winter months could diminish Natural Gas’ results of operations and harm its financial condition. Conversely, as occurred in certain past years, extreme cold weather conditions could increase its results of operations in a manner that would not likely be annually recurring. For information related to our weather hedges, see Note 9(a) to the consolidated financial statements. For additional risks related to the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, see “—The February 2021 Winter Storm...” below and Note 7 to the consolidated condensed financial statements for further information.

29

Climate change could adversely impact financial results from our businesses and result in more frequent and more severe weather events that could adversely affect our results of operations.

A changing climate creates uncertainty and could result in broad changes, both physical and financial in nature, to our service territories and our business. If climate changes occur that result in warmer temperatures than normal in our service territories, financial results from our businesses could be adversely impacted. For example, where natural gas is used to heat homes and businesses, warmer weather might result in less natural gas being used, adversely affecting us. Another possible result of climate change is more frequent and more severe weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes and severe winter weather conditions, including ice storms, all of which may impact our operations and ability to serve our customers. To the extent the frequency and severity of extreme weather events increases, our costs of providing service may increase, including the costs and availability of procuring insurance related to such impacts, and those costs may not be recoverable. Further, events of extreme weather could make it unsafe or hinder the effectiveness of our employees to fix, maintain and restore power to affected areas and could harm our reputation. Since certain of our facilities are located along or near the Texas gulf coast, increased or more severe hurricanes or tornadoes could increase our costs to repair damaged facilities and restore service to our customers. Our electric and Natural Gas operations in our service territories were both also impacted by the February 2021 Winter Storm Event. In the long term, climate change could also cause shifts in population, including customers moving away from our service territories. When we cannot deliver electricity or natural gas to customers or our customers cannot receive our services, our financial results are impacted by lost revenues, and we generally must seek approval from regulators to recover restoration costs. To the extent we are unable to recover those costs, or if recovery of such costs results in higher rates and reduced demand for our services, our future financial results may be adversely impacted. Any such decreased energy use may also require us to retire current infrastructure that is no longer needed. Similarly, public and private efforts to address climate change, such as by legislation, regulation, actions by private interest groups, and litigation, could impact our ability to continue operating our businesses as we do today, significant aspects of which rely on fossil fuels. These initiatives could have a significant impact on us and our operations as well as on our third party suppliers, vendors and partners, which could impact us by among other things, causing permitting and construction delays, project cancellations or increased project costs passed on to us. In September 2021, CenterPoint Energy announced its new net zero emission goals for Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2035 and a 20-30% reduction in Scope 3 emissions by 2035 as compared to 2021 levels. Finally, we may be subject to climate change litigation, which could result in substantial fines, penalties or damages and restrictions on our operations. The oil and gas industry has already faced such litigation, challenging its marketing and use of fossil fuels and attributing climate change to emissions resulting from the use of fossil fuels, and other industries, including ours, could face such litigation in the future. For more information, see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, “— The February 2021 Winter Storm...” and “— CenterPoint Energy is subject to operational and financial risks...” 

Aging infrastructure may lead to increased costs and disruptions in operations that could negatively impact our financial results.

We have risks associated with aging infrastructure assets, including the failure of equipment or processes and potential breakdowns due to such aging. The age of certain of our assets may result in a need for replacement or higher level of maintenance costs because of our risk based federal and state compliant integrity management programs. Failure to achieve timely and full recovery of these expenses could adversely impact revenues and could result in increased capital expenditures or expenses. In addition, the nature of information available on aging infrastructure assets may make inspections, maintenance, upgrading and replacement of the assets particularly challenging. Also, our ability to successfully maintain or replace our aging infrastructure may be delayed or be at a greater cost than anticipated due to supply chain disruptions. Further, with respect to Natural Gas’ operations, if certain pipeline replacements (for example, cast-iron or bare steel pipe) are not completed timely or successfully, government agencies and private parties might allege the uncompleted replacements caused events such as fires, explosions or leaks. Although we maintain insurance for certain of our facilities, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient in the event that a catastrophic loss is alleged to have been caused by a failure to timely complete equipment replacements. Insufficient insurance coverage and increased insurance costs could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Finally, aging infrastructure may complicate our utility operations ability to address climate change concerns and efforts to enhance resiliency and reliability. See “— Continued disruptions to the supply...”

Our businesses will continue to have to adapt to technological change and may not be successful or may have to incur significant expenditures to adapt to technological change. 

We operate businesses that require sophisticated data collection, processing systems, software and other technology. Some of the technologies supporting the industries we serve are changing rapidly and increasing in complexity. New technologies will emerge or grow that may be superior to, or may not be compatible with, some of our existing technologies, and may require us to make significant investments and expenditures so that we can continue to provide cost-effective and reliable methods for energy production and delivery. Among such technological advances are distributed generation resources (e.g., private solar, 

30

microturbines, fuel cells), energy storage devices and more energy-efficient buildings and products designed to reduce energy consumption and waste. As these technologies become a more cost-competitive option over time, whether through cost effectiveness or government incentives and subsidies, certain customers may choose to meet their own energy needs and subsequently decrease usage of our systems and services, including Indiana Electric’s generating facilities becoming less competitive and economical. Further, certain regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced or are considering requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. Additionally, technological advances driven by federal laws mandating new levels of energy efficiency in end-use electric and natural gas devices or other improvements in or applications of technology could lead to declines in per capita energy consumption.

Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these technological changes in a cost-effective manner, to offer, on a timely basis, reliable services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards, and to recover all, or a significant portion of, any unrecovered investment in obsolete assets. If we fail to adapt successfully to any technological change or obsolescence, fail to obtain access to important technologies or incur significant expenditures in adapting to technological change, or if implemented technology does not operate as anticipated, our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.

Our potential business strategies and strategic initiatives, including merger and acquisition activities and the disposition of assets or businesses, may not be completed or perform as expected, adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows depend, in part, on our management’s ability to implement our business strategies successfully and realize the anticipated benefits therefrom. From time to time we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions or divestitures of businesses and assets, such as our recently completed sale of our Natural Gas businesses in Arkansas and Oklahoma and the recently completed Enable Merger and subsequent sale of Energy Transfer Common Units and Energy Transfer Series G Preferred Units, form joint ventures or undertake restructurings. However, suitable acquisition candidates or potential buyers may not continue to be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable, or the expected benefits of completed acquisitions or dispositions may not be realized fully or at all, or may not be realized in the anticipated timeframe. If we are unable to make acquisitions, or if those acquisitions do not perform as anticipated, our future growth may be adversely affected. Further, any completed or future acquisitions involve substantial risks, including the following:

•acquired businesses or assets may not produce revenues, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels;

•acquired businesses or assets could have environmental, permitting or other problems for which contractual protections prove inadequate; 

•we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us, that exceed our estimates, or for which our rights to indemnification from the seller are limited; 

•we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems; and 

•acquisitions, or the pursuit of acquisitions, could disrupt our ongoing businesses, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain current business standards, controls and procedures. 

We are exposed to risks related to reduction in energy consumption due to factors such as changes in customers’ perceptions from incidents of other utilities involving natural gas pipelines.

Our businesses are affected by reduction in energy consumption due to factors including economic, climate and market conditions in our service territories, energy efficiency initiatives, use of alternative technologies and changes in our customers’ perceptions regarding natural gas usage as a result of incidents of other utilities involving natural gas pipelines, which could impact our ability to grow our customer base and our rate of growth. Growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence demand for electricity and natural gas and the need for additional delivery facilities. Customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside our control, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand-side management goals, distributed generation resources and economic and demographic conditions, including population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. Declines in demand for electricity and natural gas in our service territories due to pipeline incidents of other utilities, increased electricity and natural gas prices as experienced during the February 2021 Winter Storm Event and economic downturns, among other factors, could reduce overall usage and lessen cash flows, especially as industrial customers reduce production and, therefore, consumption of electricity and natural gas. Although Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s transmission and distribution businesses are subject to regulated allowable rates of return and recovery of certain costs under periodic adjustment clauses, overall declines in electricity delivered and used as a result of economic downturn or recession 

31

could reduce revenues and cash flows, thereby diminishing results of operations. A reduction in the rate of economic, employment and/or population growth could result in lower growth and reduced demand for and usage of electricity and natural gas in such service territories. Some or all of these factors could result in a lack of growth or decline in customer demand for electricity or natural gas or number of customers and may result in our failure to fully realize anticipated benefits from significant capital investments and expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

General Risk Factors Affecting Our Businesses

Cyberattacks, physical security breaches, acts of terrorism or other disruptions could adversely impact our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We are subject to cyber and physical security risks related to adversaries attacking information technology systems, network infrastructure, technology and facilities used to conduct almost all of our businesses, which includes, among other things, (i) managing operations and other business processes and (ii) protecting sensitive information maintained in the normal course of business. For example, the operation of our electric generation, transmission and distribution systems are dependent on not only physical interconnection of our facilities but also on communications among the various components of our systems and third-party systems. This reliance on information and communication between and among those components has increased since deployment of the intelligent grid, smart devices and operational technologies across our businesses. Further, certain of the various internal systems we use to conduct our businesses are highly integrated. Consequently, a cyberattack or unauthorized access in any one of these systems could potentially impact the other systems. Similarly, our business operations are interconnected with external networks and facilities. For example, the operation of an efficient deregulated wholesale and retail electric market in Texas mandates communication with ERCOT, and competitive retailers; and our Indiana Electric organization has a similar relationship with MISO. Also, the distribution of natural gas to our customers requires communications with third-party systems. Disruption of those communications, whether caused by physical disruption such as storms or other natural disasters, by failure of equipment or technology or by manmade events, such as cyberattacks or acts of terrorism, may disrupt our ability to conduct operations and control assets.

Cyberattacks, including phishing attacks and threats from the use of malicious code such as malware, ransomware and viruses, and unauthorized access could also result in the loss, or unauthorized use, of confidential, proprietary or critical infrastructure data or security breaches of other information technology systems that could disrupt operations and critical business functions, adversely affect reputation, increase costs and subject us to possible legal claims and liability. While we have implemented and maintain a cybersecurity program designed to protect our information technology, operational technology, and data systems from such attacks, our cybersecurity program does not prevent all breaches or cyberattack incidents. We have experienced an increase in the number of attempts by external parties to access our networks or our company data without authorization. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, cyber intrusions and attacks to our information systems and those of third parties, including vendors, suppliers, contractors and quasi government entities, like ERCOT and MISO, who perform certain services for us or administer and maintain our sensitive information. The risk of a disruption or breach of our operational systems, or the compromise of the data processed in connection with our operations, through cybersecurity breach or ransomware attack has increased as attempted attacks have advanced in sophistication and number around the world. We are not fully insured against all cybersecurity risks, any of which could adversely affect our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We depend on the secure operations of our physical assets to transport the energy we deliver and our information technology to process, transmit and store electronic information, including information and operational technology we use to safely operate our energy transportation systems. Security breaches or acts of terrorism could expose our business to a risk of loss, misuse or interruption of critical physical assets or information and functions that affect our operations, as well as potential data privacy breaches and loss of protected personal information. Such losses could result in operational impacts, damage to our assets, public or personal safety incidents, damage to the environment, reputational harm, competitive disadvantage, regulatory enforcement actions, litigation and a potential material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There is no certainty that costs incurred related to securing against security threats will be completely recoverable through rates. 

32

Compliance with and changes in cybersecurity laws and regulations have a cost and operational impact on our business, and failure to comply with such requirements could adversely impact our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Cyberattacks are becoming more sophisticated, and U.S. government warnings have indicated that infrastructure assets, including pipelines and electric generation and infrastructure, may be specifically targeted by certain groups. In the second and third quarters of 2021, the TSA announced two new security directives in response to a ransomware attack on the Colonial Pipeline that occurred in 2021. These directives require critical pipeline owners to comply with mandatory reporting measures, designate a cybersecurity coordinator, provide vulnerability assessments, and ensure compliance with certain cybersecurity requirements. We may be required to expend significant additional resources and costs to respond to cyberattacks, to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures, or to assess, investigate and remediate any critical infrastructure security vulnerabilities. There is no certainty that such costs incurred will be recovered through rates. Any failure to remain in compliance with these government regulations or failure in our cybersecurity protective measures may result in enforcement actions which may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information could adversely affect us.

In connection with our businesses, we and our vendors, suppliers and contractors collect and retain personally identifiable information (for example, information of our customers, shareholders, suppliers and employees), and there is an expectation that we and such third parties will adequately protect that information. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and data privacy is increasingly demanding. New laws and regulations governing data privacy and the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information pose increasingly complex compliance challenges and elevate our costs. Any failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations, including as a result of a security or privacy breach, could result in significant costs, fines and penalties and liabilities for us. While we have implemented and maintain a data privacy program designed to protect personal information from any attacks, our data privacy programs does not prevent all security or privacy breaches. Some of our third party vendors who maintain personally identifiable information have experienced a breach of their data privacy. A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of the personally identifiable information we maintain or failure of our vendors, suppliers and contractors to use or maintain such data in accordance with contractual provisions and other legal requirements could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant costs, fines and penalties and liabilities for us. Additionally, if we acquire a company that has violated or is not in compliance with applicable data protection laws, we may incur significant liabilities and penalties as a result.

Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient. Insufficient insurance coverage and increased insurance costs could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We currently have insurance in place, such as general liability and property insurance, to cover certain of our facilities in amounts that we consider appropriate. Such policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles and do not include business interruption coverage. Insurance coverage may not be available in the future at current costs or on commercially reasonable terms, and the insurance proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to, any of our facilities may not be sufficient to fully cover or restore the loss or damage without negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Costs, damages and other liabilities related to recent events and incidents that affected other utilities, such as wildfires, winter storms and explosions, among other things, have exceeded or could exceed such utilities’ insurance coverage. Further, as a result of these recent events and incidents, the marketplace for insurance coverage to utility companies may be unavailable or limited in capacity or any such available coverage may be deemed by us to be cost prohibitive under current conditions. Insurance premiums for any such coverage, if available, may not be eligible for recovery, whether in full or in part, by us through the rates charged by our utility businesses.

In common with other companies in its line of business that serve coastal regions, Houston Electric does not have insurance covering its transmission and distribution system, other than substations, because Houston Electric believes it to be cost prohibitive and insurance capacity to be limited. Historically, Houston Electric has been able to recover the costs incurred in restoring its transmission and distribution properties following hurricanes or other disasters through issuance of storm restoration bonds or a change in its regulated rates or otherwise. In the future, any such recovery may not be granted. Therefore, Houston Electric may not be able to restore any loss of, or damage to, any of its transmission and distribution properties without negative impact on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

33

We face risks related to COVID-19 and other health epidemics and outbreaks, including economic, regulatory, legal, workforce and cyber security risks, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.

The COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve and adversely affect current global economic activities and conditions. An extended slowdown of economic growth, decreased demand for commodities and/or material changes in governmental or regulatory policy in the United States has resulted in, and could continue to result in, lower growth and reduced demand for and usage of electricity and natural gas in our service territories, particularly among our commercial and industrial customers, as customer facilities close, remain closed or potentially close again. The ability of our customers, contractors and suppliers to meet their obligations to us, including payment obligations, has also been negatively affected under the current economic conditions and previously resulted in an increase to allowance for credit losses. To the extent these conditions in our service territories persist, our bad debt expense from uncollectible accounts could continue to increase, negatively impacting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. REPs have and could continue to encounter financial difficulties, including bankruptcies, which could impair their ability to pay for Houston Electric’s services or could cause them to delay such payments, adversely affecting Houston Electric’s cash flows and liquidity. Additionally, our state and local regulatory agencies, in response to a federal mandate or otherwise, could impose restrictions on the rates we charge to provide our services, including the inability to implement approved rates, or delay actions with respect to our rate cases and filings. The COVID-19 pandemic may affect our ability to timely satisfy regulatory requirements such as recordkeeping and/or timely reporting requirements. For further information on COVID-19 regulatory matters, please see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 

Additionally, various federal, state, and local governmental entities continue to pass legislation, issue orders, and take other measures to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, including vaccination, testing and masking requirements. Some of these governmental requirements conflict with others presenting challenges to businesses like ours in interpreting, implementing, and complying with them. Governmental requirements have also been subject to challenges in litigation, such as OSHA’s Emergency Temporary Standard, mandating vaccination for certain employers, which was recently withdrawn by OSHA after being stayed by the Supreme Court of the United States. 

With respect to our supply chain, to the extent we experience such disruptions in our supply chain that limit our ability to obtain materials and equipment necessary for our businesses, whether through delayed order fulfillment, limited production or unavailability due to COVID-19, we may be unable to perform our operations timely or as anticipated, which could result in service or construction delays, project cancellations or increased costs. Furthermore, in the event key officers or a substantial portion of our workforce were to be impacted by COVID-19 for an extended period of time, we may face challenges with respect to our services or operations and we may not be able to execute our capital plan as anticipated. There is considerable uncertainty regarding the extent to which COVID-19 and its variants will continue to spread, even with the availability of a vaccine therefor, and the extent and duration of governmental and other measures implemented to try to slow the spread of COVID-19 and variants, such as large-scale travel bans and restrictions, border closures, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders and business and government shutdowns. Restrictions of this nature have caused, and may continue to cause, us, our suppliers and other business counterparties to experience operational delays, shortages of employees, materials and equipment, facility shutdowns or business closures. As appropriate, based on conditions, we have modified certain business and workforce practices (including those related to employee travel, employee work locations and participation in meetings, events and conferences) to conform to government restrictions and best practices encouraged by governmental and regulatory authorities. However, the quarantine of personnel or the inability to access our facilities or customer sites could adversely affect our operations. While certain of our personnel have been, and may continue to be, quarantined, our operations and corporate functions have not been significantly adversely affected to date. As of the date of this Form 10-K, the vast majority of our workforce works from their regular work locations. As appropriate, we have adjusted our operational protocols to minimize exposure and risk to our field personnel, customers and the communities we serve, while continuing to maintain the work activities necessary for safe and reliable service to our customers. Even with increased safety precautions, we cannot assure that such adjustments and precautions will be sufficient to minimize exposure to and risk from COVID-19. Also, we have a limited number of highly skilled employees for some of our operations. If a large proportion of our employees in those critical positions were to contract COVID-19 at the same time, we would rely upon our business continuity plans in an effort to continue operations at our facilities, but there is no certainty that such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the adverse impact to our operations that could result from shortages of highly skilled employees. Additionally, in the event that customers, contractors, employees or others were to allege that they contracted COVID-19 because of actions we took or failed to take, we could face claims, lawsuits and potential legal liability. In addition to the reasonableness of our actions and efforts to comply with applicable COVID-19 guidance, our exposure and ultimate liability would depend upon the applicability of workers’ compensation, the availability of insurance coverage and limitations on liability being considered or enacted at the state and federal level. For more information, see “— Continued disruptions to the supply...” 

34

Experts have observed an increase in the volume and the sophistication of cyberattacks since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. Any technology system breaches and/or data privacy incidents could disrupt our operations or result in the loss or exposure of confidential or sensitive customer, employee or company information and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For those employees and third-party service providers who continue to work remotely, we face heightened cyber security and privacy risks related to unauthorized system access, aggressive social engineering tactics and adversaries attacking the information technology systems, network infrastructure, technology and facilities used to conduct our business. The increase in the remote working arrangements of our employees initially as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic required enhancements and modifications to our information technology infrastructure (for example, virtual private network, or VPN, and remote collaboration systems), and any failures of these technologies, including third-party service providers, that facilitate working remotely could limit our ability to conduct our ordinary operations and expose us to increased risk or impact of a cyberattack. See “— Cyberattacks, physical security breaches, acts...”

We will continue to monitor developments affecting our employees, customers and operations. At this time, however, we cannot predict the extent or duration of the COVID-19 pandemic or its future effects on national, state and local economies, including the impact on our ability to access capital markets, our supply chain, our business strategies and plans and our workforce, nor can we estimate the potential adverse impact from COVID-19 on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Other future epidemics and outbreaks may result in potential adverse impacts similar to, or worse than, those from COVID-19. 

Our success depends upon our ability to attract, effectively transition, motivate and retain key employees and identify and develop talent to succeed senior management.

We depend on senior executive officers and other key personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract, effectively transition and retain key personnel. Further tightening of the labor market and increasing wages to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. The inability to recruit and retain or effectively transition key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operations. In addition, because of the reliance on our management team, our future success depends in part on our ability to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management. The retention of key personnel and appropriate senior management succession planning will continue to be critically important to the successful implementation of our strategies.

Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce and maintain good labor relations could adversely impact the operations of our facilities and our results of operations.

Our businesses are dependent on recruiting, retaining and motivating employees. Like many companies in the utilities industry and other industries, we have experienced higher than normal turnover of employees as a result of a number of factors, including the COVID-19 pandemic, a tightening labor market, increasing remote working opportunities, employees shifting industries, individuals deciding not to work and a maturing workforce. Certain circumstances, such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, a mismatch of existing skillsets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges such as a lack of resources, loss of knowledge or a lengthy time period associated with skill development. Our costs, including costs to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate our businesses, particularly the specialized skills and knowledge required to construct and operate generation facilities, a technology-enabled power grid and transmission and distribution facilities, among other facilities. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our ability to execute on our 10-year capital plan and our results of operations could be negatively affected.

Furthermore, the operations of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees, and several of our businesses have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions, comprising approximately 37% of our workforce. We have several separate bargaining units, each with a unique collective bargaining agreement described further in Note 8(j) to the consolidated financial statements, which information is incorporated herein by reference. The collective bargaining agreements with USW Locals 13-227, USW Locals 13-1 and IBEW Local 702 related to Natural Gas and CenterPoint Energy employees are scheduled to expire in June 2022, July 2022 and June 2022, respectively, and negotiations of these agreements are expected to be completed before the respective expirations. Any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. These potential labor disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. Labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and cash flows.

35

Changing demographics, poor investment performance of pension plan assets and other factors adversely affecting the calculation of pension liabilities could unfavorably impact our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.

CenterPoint Energy and its subsidiaries maintain qualified defined benefit pension plans covering certain of its employees. Costs associated with these plans are dependent upon a number of factors including the investment returns on plan assets, the level of interest rates used to calculate the funded status of the plan, contributions to the plan, the number of plan participants and government regulations with respect to funding requirements and the calculation of plan liabilities. Funding requirements may increase and CenterPoint Energy may be required to make unplanned contributions in the event of a decline in the market value of plan assets, a decline in the interest rates used to calculate the present value of future plan obligations, or government regulations that increase minimum funding requirements or the pension liability. In addition to affecting CenterPoint Energy’s funding requirements, these factors could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.

We may be significantly affected by changes in federal income tax laws and regulations, including any comprehensive federal tax reform legislation.

Our businesses are impacted by U.S. federal income tax policy. Under the current administration with the Senate and House of Representatives controlled by the Democratic Party, comprehensive federal tax reform legislation could be enacted that may significantly change the federal income tax laws applicable to domestic businesses, including changes that may increase the federal income tax rate and impact investment incentives and deductions for depreciation and interest, among other deductions. While CenterPoint Energy and its subsidiaries cannot assess the overall impact of any such potential legislation on our businesses, it is possible that our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, with any enacted federal tax reform legislation, it is uncertain how state commissions and local municipalities may require us to respond to the effects of such tax legislation, including determining the treatment of EDIT and other increases and decreases in our revenue requirements. As such, potential regulatory actions in response to any enacted tax legislation could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We are involved in numerous legal proceedings, the outcomes of which are uncertain, and resolutions adverse to us could negatively affect our financial results.

The Registrants are subject to numerous legal proceedings, the most significant of which are summarized in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements to the Registrants’ respective consolidated financial statements. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and recent trends suggest that jury verdicts and other liability have been increasing, and the Registrants cannot predict the outcome of all matters with assurance. Additionally, under some circumstances, the Registrants could potentially have claims filed against them or incur liabilities associated with assets and businesses no longer owned by them as a result of sales, divestitures or other transfers to third parties who may be unable to fulfill their indemnity obligations to the Registrants. Final resolution of these matters, or any potential future claims or liabilities, may require additional expenditures over an extended period of time that may be in excess of established insurance or reserves and may have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ financial results.

Our businesses may be adversely affected by the intentional misconduct of our employees.

We are committed to living our core values of safety, integrity, accountability, initiative and respect and complying with all applicable laws and regulations. Despite that commitment and efforts to prevent misconduct, it is possible for employees to engage in intentional misconduct, fail to uphold our core values, and violate laws and regulations for individual gain through contract or procurement fraud, misappropriation, bribery or corruption, fraudulent related-party transactions and serious breaches of our Ethics and Compliance Code and other policies. If such intentional misconduct by employees should occur, it could result in substantial liability, higher costs, increased regulatory scrutiny and negative public perceptions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. From time to time, including as part of our Ethics and Compliance program’s efforts to detect misconduct, we become aware of and expect to continue to become aware of instances of employee misconduct, which we investigate, remediate and disclose as appropriate and proportionate to the incident.

Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

36

Item 2.Properties