Item 1A: Risk Factors

Information in any item of this report as to which reference is made in this Item 1A is incorporated by reference herein. The use of such terms as “see” or “refer to” shall be deemed to incorporate at the place such term is used the information to which such reference is made.

The Companies’ businesses are influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, and that involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual operating results, cash flows and financial condition.

The Companies have established an enterprise risk management program to identify, assess, manage and monitor its major business risks based on established criteria for the severity of an event, the likelihood of its occurrence, and the programs in place to control the event or reduce the impact. The Companies’ major risks include:

Regulatory/Compliance Risks:

The Companies Are Extensively Regulated And Are Subject To Substantial Penalties. The Companies’ operations require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental agencies. State utility regulators may seek to impose substantial penalties on the Utilities for violations of state utility laws, regulations or orders. The Utilities are also subject to recurring, independent, third-party audits with respect to these regulations and standards. In addition, the Utilities' rate plans usually include negative revenue adjustments for failing to meet certain operating and customer satisfaction standards. FERC has the authority to impose penalties on the Utilities, the Clean Energy Businesses and the projects that Con Edison Transmission invests in, which could be substantial, for violations of the Federal Power Act, the Natural Gas Act or related rules, including reliability and cyber security rules. Environmental agencies may seek penalties for failure to comply with laws, regulations or permits. The Companies may also be subject to penalties from other regulatory agencies. The Companies may be subject to new laws, regulations or other requirements or the revision or reinterpretation of such requirements, which could adversely affect them. See “Utility Regulation", "Competition" and “Environmental Matters – Climate Change" and "Environmental Matters - Other Federal, State and Local Environmental Provisions” in Item 1, “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Item 7 and “COVID-19 Regulatory Matters” and “Other Regulatory Matters” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8.

The Utilities’ Rate Plans May Not Provide A Reasonable Return. The Utilities have rate plans approved by state utility regulators that limit the rates they can charge their customers. The rates are generally designed for, but do not guarantee, the recovery of the Utilities’ cost of service (including a return on equity). See “Utility Regulation – State Utility Regulation – Rate Plans” in Item 1 and “Rate Plans” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. Rates usually may not be changed during the specified terms of the rate plans other than to recover energy costs and limited other exceptions. The Utilities’ actual costs may exceed levels provided for such costs in the rate plans (see “COVID-19 Regulatory Matters” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8). State utility regulators can initiate proceedings to prohibit the Utilities from recovering from their customers the cost of service (including energy costs and storm restoration costs) that the regulators determine to have been imprudently incurred (see "Other Regulatory Matters" in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8). The Utilities have from time to time entered into settlement agreements to resolve various prudence proceedings.

The Companies May Be Adversely Affected By Changes To The Utilities’ Rate Plans. The Utilities’ rate plans typically require action by regulators at their expiration dates, which may include approval of new plans with different provisions. The need to recover from customers increasing costs, taxes or state-mandated assessments or surcharges could adversely affect the Utilities’ opportunity to obtain new rate plans that provide a reasonable rate of return and continue important provisions of current rate plans. The Utilities’ current NY electric and gas rate plans include revenue decoupling mechanisms and their NY electric, gas and steam rate plans include provisions for the recovery of energy costs and reconciliation of the actual amount of pension and other postretirement, environmental and certain other costs to amounts reflected in rates. See “Rate Plans” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8.

44CON EDISON ANNUAL REPORT 2021

Operations Risks:

The Failure Of, Or Damage To, The Companies’ Facilities Could Adversely Affect The Companies. The Utilities provide electricity, gas and steam service using energy facilities, many of which are located either in, or close to, densely populated public places. See the description of the Utilities’ facilities in Item 1. A failure of, or damage to, these facilities, or an error in the operation or maintenance of these facilities, could result in bodily injury or death, property damage, the release of hazardous substances or extended service interruptions. Impacts of climate change, such as sea level rise, coastal storm surge, inland flooding from intense rainfall, hurricane-strength winds and extreme heat could damage facilities and the Utilities may experience more severe consequences from attempting to operate during and after such events. The Utilities’ response to such events may be perceived to be below customer expectations. The Utilities' successful implementation of their maintenance programs reduces, but does not fully protect against, damage to their facilities for which they will be held responsible and which may hinder their restoration efforts. The Utilities could be required to pay substantial amounts that may not be covered by the Utilities’ insurance policies to repair or replace their facilities, compensate others for injury or death or other damage and settle any proceedings initiated by state utility regulators or other regulatory agencies. The occurrence of such events could also adversely affect the cost and availability of insurance. See “Other Regulatory Matters” in Note B and “Manhattan Explosion and Fire” in Note H to the financial statements in Item 8. Changes to laws, regulations or judicial doctrines could further expand the Utilities’ liability for service interruptions. See “Utility Regulation – State Utility Regulation” and "Environmental Matters – Climate Change" in Item 1.

A Cyber Attack Could Adversely Affect The Companies. The Companies and other operators of critical energy infrastructure and energy market participants face a heightened risk of cyber attack and the Companies’ businesses require the continued operation of information systems and network infrastructure. See Item 1 for a description of the businesses of the Utilities, the Clean Energy Businesses and Con Edison Transmission. Cyber attacks may include hacking, viruses, malware, denial of service attacks, ransomware, exploited vulnerabilities or other security breaches, including loss of data and communications. Cyber threats to the electric and gas systems are increasing in sophistication, magnitude and frequency. Interconnectivity with customers, independent system operators, energy traders and other energy market participants, suppliers, contractors and others also exposes the Companies’ information systems and network infrastructure to an increased risk of cyber incidents, including attacks. Such interconnectivity increases the risk that a cyber incident or attack on the Companies could affect others and that a cyber incident or attack on others could affect the Companies. In the event of a cyber incident or attack that the Companies were unable to defend against or mitigate, the Companies could have their operations and the operations of their customers and others disrupted. The Companies could also have their financial and other information systems and network infrastructure impaired, property damaged, and customer and employee information stolen; experience substantial loss of revenues, response costs and other financial loss; and be subject to increased regulation, litigation, penalties and damage to their reputation. The Companies address vulnerabilities as they are identified, including the Log4j vulnerability common to web applications that was announced in December 2021. The Companies have experienced cyber incidents and attacks, although none of the incidents or attacks had a material impact. 

The Failure Of Processes and Systems And The Performance Of Employees And Contractors Could Adversely Affect The Companies.  The Companies have developed business processes and use information and communication systems and enterprise platforms for operations, customer service, legal compliance, personnel, accounting, planning and other matters. The Companies have completed a multi-year, phased transition of certain information technology services, including application maintenance and support and infrastructure and operations services, to a contractor. The failure of the Companies’ or its contractors' business processes or information and communication systems or the failure by the Companies’ employees or contractors to follow procedures, their unsafe actions, errors or intentional misconduct, cyber incidents or attacks, or work stoppages could adversely affect the Companies’ operations and liquidity and result in substantial liability, higher costs and increased regulatory requirements. The violation of laws or regulations by employees or contractors for personal gain may result from contract and procurement fraud, extortion, bribe acceptance, fraudulent related-party transactions and serious breaches of corporate policy or standards of business conduct. See “Human Capital” in Item 1.

Environmental Risks:

The Companies Are Exposed To Risks From The Environmental Consequences Of Their Operations. The Companies are exposed to risks relating to climate change and related matters. In 2019, CECONY completed a climate change vulnerability study and during 2020, CECONY further evaluated its future climate change adaptation strategies and developed a climate change implementation plan. NY State enacted the Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act and New York City enacted the Climate Mobilization Act. See “Environmental Matters – Clean Energy Future” in Item 1. CECONY may also be impacted by regulations requiring reductions in air emissions. See “Environmental Matters – Other Federal, State and Local Environmental Provisions – Air Quality” in Item 1. In addition, the Utilities are responsible for hazardous substances, such as asbestos, PCBs and coal tar, that have been used or produced in the course of the Utilities’ operations and are present on properties or in facilities 

CON EDISON ANNUAL REPORT 202145 

and equipment currently or previously owned by them. See “Environmental Matters” in Item 1 and Note G to the financial statements in Item 8. The Companies could be adversely affected if a causal relationship between electric and magnetic fields and adverse health effects were to be established.

Financial and Market Risks:

Con Edison’s Ability To Pay Dividends Or Interest Depends On Dividends From Its Subsidiaries. Con Edison’s ability to pay dividends on its common shares or interest on its external borrowings depends primarily on the dividends and other distributions it receives from its subsidiaries. The dividends that the Utilities may pay to Con Edison are limited by the NYSPSC to not more than 100 percent of their respective income available for dividends calculated on a two-year rolling average basis, with certain exceptions. See “Dividends” in Note C and Note U to the financial statements in Item 8.

Changes To Tax Laws Could Adversely Affect the Companies.  Changes to tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof could have a material adverse impact on the Companies. Depending on the extent of these changes, the changes could also adversely impact the Companies’ credit ratings and liquidity. The reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate to 21 percent under the TCJA resulted in decreased cash flows from operating activities, and requires increased cash flows from financing activities, for the Utilities. See “Capital Requirements and Resources – Capital Resources” in Item 1, “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Flows from Operating Activities” in Item 7, "Rate Plans" and "Other Regulatory Matters" in Note B and Note L to the financial statements in Item 8.

The Companies Require Access To Capital Markets To Satisfy Funding Requirements. The Utilities estimate that their construction expenditures will exceed $14,300 million over the next three years. The Utilities use internally-generated funds, equity contributions from Con Edison, if any, and external borrowings to fund the construction expenditures. The Clean Energy Businesses are investing in renewable generation and sustainable energy infrastructure projects that require funds in excess of those produced in the businesses. Con Edison expects to finance its capital requirements primarily through internally generated funds, the sale of its common shares or external borrowings. Changes in financial market conditions or in the Companies’ credit ratings could adversely affect their ability to raise new capital and the cost thereof. See “Capital Requirements and Resources” in Item 1.

A Disruption In The Wholesale Energy Markets Or Failure By An Energy Supplier or Customer Could Adversely Affect The Companies. Almost all the electricity and gas the Utilities sell to their full-service customers is purchased through the wholesale energy markets or pursuant to contracts with energy suppliers. See the description of the Utilities’ energy supply in Item 1. A disruption in the wholesale energy markets or a failure on the part of the Utilities’ energy suppliers or operators of energy delivery systems that connect to the Utilities’ energy facilities could adversely affect their ability to meet their customers’ energy needs and adversely affect the Companies. The Utilities' ability to gain access to additional energy supplies, if needed, depends on effective markets and siting approvals for developer projects, which the Utilities do not control. See “CECONY - Gas Peak Demand” in Item 1. The Clean Energy Businesses sell the output of their renewable electric projects under long-term power purchase agreements with utilities and municipalities, and a failure of the production projects could adversely affect Con Edison.

The Companies Have Substantial Unfunded Pension And Other Postretirement Benefit Liabilities. The Utilities have substantial unfunded pension and other postretirement benefit liabilities. The Utilities expect to make significant contributions to their pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Significant declines in the market values of the investments held to fund pension and other postretirement benefits could trigger substantial funding requirements under governmental regulations. See “Critical Accounting Estimates – Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits” and “Financial and Commodity Market Risks” in Item 7 and Notes E and F to the financial statements in Item 8.

46CON EDISON ANNUAL REPORT 2021

Other Risks:

The Companies Face Risks Related To Health Epidemics And Other Outbreaks, Including The COVID-19 Pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted, and continues to impact, countries, communities, supply chains and markets. During 2020, the Companies’ service territories included some of the most severely impacted counties in the United States. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been an economic slowdown in the Companies’ service territories, decreased demand for the services that they provide and changes in governmental and regulatory policy. The decline in business activity in the Companies’ service territories has resulted in a slower recovery of cash from outstanding customer accounts receivable balances, material increases in customer accounts receivable balances, increases to the allowance for uncollectible accounts, and may result in increases to write-offs of customer accounts. Although the Utilities’ NY electric and gas businesses have largely effective revenue decoupling mechanisms in place, higher unpaid accounts have impacted and could continue to impact the Companies’ liquidity. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Utilities have been impacted, and may continue to be impacted by, global and U.S. supply chain disruptions causing shortages of, and increased pricing pressure on, among other things, certain raw materials, labor, microprocessors and microchips. Such disruptions have resulted in increased prices and lead times for certain orders of materials and equipment needed by the Utilities in their operations. The Companies will continue to monitor developments relating to the COVID-19 pandemic; however, the Companies cannot predict the extent to which, COVID-19 may have a material impact on liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. The situation is changing rapidly and future impacts may materialize that are not yet known. Accordingly, the extent to which COVID-19 may impact these matters will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the success of vaccination efforts, the emergence of new variants and the severity thereof, actions that federal, state and local governmental or regulatory agencies may continue to take in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and other actions taken to contain it or treat its impact, among others. See “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts” in Item 7 and “COVID-19 Regulatory Matters” in Note B.

The Companies’ Strategies May Not Be Effective To Address Changes In The External Business Environment. The failure to identify, plan and execute strategies to address changes in the external business environment could have a material adverse impact on the Companies. Con Edison seeks to provide shareholder value through continued dividend growth, supported by earnings growth in regulated utilities and contracted electric and gas assets. Changes to public policy, laws or regulations (or interpretations thereof), customer behavior or technology could significantly impact the value of the Utilities’ energy delivery facilities, the Clean Energy Businesses’ renewable and sustainable energy infrastructure projects and Con Edison Transmission's investment in electric and gas transmission projects. Such changes could also affect the Companies’ opportunities to make additional investments in such assets and the potential return on the investments. The Utilities' gas delivery customers and CECONY's steam delivery customers have alternatives, such as electricity and oil. Distributed energy resources, and demand reduction and energy efficiency investments, provide ways for the energy consumers within the Utilities’ service areas to manage their energy usage. The Companies expect distributed energy resources and electric alternatives to gas and steam to increase, and for gas and steam usage to decrease, as the CLCPA and the Climate Mobilization Act continue to be implemented. CECONY established a gas moratorium in March 2019 on new gas service in most of Westchester County. CECONY filed a gas planning analysis with the NYSPSC in July 2020 stating the moratorium could be lifted when increased pipeline capacity is achieved or peak demand is reduced to a level that would enable the company to lift the moratorium and that it is monitoring gas supply constraint in the New York City portion of its service territory. See "Clean Energy Businesses," "Con Edison Transmission," "Environmental Matters - Clean Energy Future" and "Environmental Matters - Climate Change," “Competition” and "CECONY - Gas Peak Demand" in Item 1.

The Companies Also Face Other Risks That Are Beyond Their Control. The Companies’ results of operations can be affected by circumstances or events that are beyond their control. Weather and energy efficiency efforts directly influence the demand for electricity, gas and steam service, and can affect the price of energy commodities. Terrorist or other physical attacks or acts of war could damage the Companies' facilities. Economic conditions can affect customers’ demand and ability to pay for service, which could adversely affect the Companies. An inflationary economy could increase certain operating and capital costs and employee and retiree benefit costs in excess of the costs reflected in the Utilities’ rate plans and could also increase the amount of capital that needs to be raised by the Companies and the costs of such capital. Supply chain disruptions can cause shortages of materials needed by the Companies in their business activities and can result in increased prices and lead times.  

Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments

Con Edison

Con Edison has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff.

CECONY

CECONY has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff.

CON EDISON ANNUAL REPORT 202147 

Item 2: Properties