PART I

Item 1. Business

Overview

Unless otherwise indicated or required by the context, references throughout to “Endo,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to Endo International plc and its subsidiaries.

Endo International plc is an Ireland-domiciled specialty pharmaceutical company. Endo International plc was incorporated in Ireland in 2013 as a private limited company and re-registered effective February 18, 2014 as a public limited company. Endo International plc is a holding company that conducts business through its operating subsidiaries.

Our ordinary shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (Nasdaq) under the ticker symbol “ENDP.” References throughout to “ordinary shares” refer to Endo International plc’s ordinary shares (1,000,000,000 authorized, par value of $0.0001 per share). In addition, we have 4,000,000 euro deferred shares outstanding (par value of $0.01 per share).

The address of Endo International plc’s headquarters is Minerva House, Simmonscourt Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4, Ireland (telephone number: 011-353-1-268-2000).

Our focus is on pharmaceutical products and we target areas where we believe we can build leading positions. Our operating model is based on a lean and nimble structure, the rational allocation of capital and an emphasis on high-value research and development (R&D) targets. While our primary focus is on organic growth, we evaluate and, where appropriate, execute on opportunities to expand through the licensing or acquisition of products or companies in areas that we believe serve patients and customers while offering attractive growth characteristics and margins. We believe our operating model and the execution of our corporate strategy will enable us to create shareholder value over the long-term.

The four reportable business segments in which we operate are: (1) Branded Pharmaceuticals, (2) Sterile Injectables, (3) Generic Pharmaceuticals and (4) International Pharmaceuticals. Additional information about our reportable business segments is included throughout this Part I. The results of operations of our reportable business segments are discussed in Part II, Item 7 of this report “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the heading “RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.” Across all of our reportable business segments, we generated total revenues of $2.99 billion, $2.90 billion and $2.91 billion in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

For branded products, which we sell primarily through our Branded Pharmaceuticals and Sterile Injectables segments, we seek to invest in products or product candidates that have inherent scientific, regulatory, legal and technical complexities and market such products under recognizable brand names that are trademarked. For products we develop for the U.S. market, after the completion of required clinical trials and testing, we seek approvals from regulatory bodies such as through the submission of New Drug Applications (NDAs) or Biologics License Applications (BLAs) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). We believe that our patents, the protection of discoveries in connection with our development activities, our proprietary products, technologies, processes, trade secrets, know-how, innovations and all of our intellectual property are important to our business and achieving a competitive position. However, there can be no assurance that any of our patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights will afford us any protection from competition. Additional information is included throughout this Part I, Item 1.

Generic products are the pharmaceutical and therapeutic equivalents of branded products and are generally sold under their generic (chemical) names rather than their brand names. For generic products, which we sell primarily through our Sterile Injectables and Generic Pharmaceuticals segments, our focus is on high-barrier-to-entry products, with an emphasis on complex sterile injectable products, such as ready-to-use (RTU) products, and first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or face complex legal and regulatory challenges. In the U.S., a first-to-file product refers to a generic product for which the Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) containing a patent challenge (or Paragraph IV certification) to the corresponding branded product’s listed patents was the first to be filed with the FDA. In the U.S., manufacturers that launch first-to-file products, after success in litigating or otherwise resolving related patent challenges, and receive final FDA approval have the opportunity for 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity from competing generic products other than authorized generics. A first-to-market product refers to a product that is the first marketed generic equivalent of a branded product for reasons apart from statutory marketing exclusivity. This can occur, for example, when a generic product is difficult to formulate or manufacture. First-to-market products allow manufacturers to mitigate risks from competitive pressures commonly associated with commoditized generic products. Additional information is included throughout this Part I, Item 1.

1
Our Strategy

Endo International plc is a specialty pharmaceutical company committed to helping everyone we serve live their best life through the delivery of high-quality, life-enhancing therapies. We are focused on driving long-term growth through a diversified and durable portfolio of businesses, continuing product development and manufacturing and commercialization excellence. Our strategic priorities include expanding and enhancing our portfolio with differentiated and durable products; reinventing how we work to better serve our customers, promote innovation and improve productivity; and being a force for good by embracing and adopting sustainable practices that benefit all of our stakeholders. Specific areas of management’s focus include:

•Branded Pharmaceuticals: Accelerating performance of organic growth drivers in our Specialty Products portfolio, expanding margin in our Established Products portfolio and creating a new treatment category in the medical aesthetics market, which we entered in March 2021 with the launch of QWO® (collagenase clostridium histolyticum-aaes), which was approved by the FDA in July 2020 for the treatment of moderate to severe cellulite in the buttocks of adult women. As further described below under the heading “Select Development Projects,” management is also focused on investing in key product life cycle management and other development opportunities, including in the areas of medical therapeutics and medical aesthetics.

•Sterile Injectables: Focusing on developing injectable products with inherent scientific, regulatory, legal and technical complexities, expanding the product portfolio to include other dosages and technologies and developing or acquiring high-barrier-to-entry products that are difficult to manufacture.

•Generic Pharmaceuticals: Focusing on developing or acquiring high-barrier-to-entry products, including first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or face complex legal and regulatory challenges.

Additionally, as part of our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) strategy, we are committed to the adoption of more sustainable practices, including the promotion of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) in all that we do, and to operating our business in a responsible manner that seeks to minimize environmental impact, while promoting the safe, efficient and responsible use of global resources.

While our primary focus is on organic growth, we plan to continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, execute on opportunities to expand through the licensing or acquisition of products or companies. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in executing on our strategy.

Our Competitive Strengths

To successfully execute our strategy, we must continue to capitalize on our following core strengths:

Experienced and dedicated management team. We have a highly skilled and customer-focused management team in critical leadership positions across Endo. Our senior management team has extensive experience in the pharmaceutical and medical aesthetics industry, including improving business performance through organic revenue growth, operational and commercial excellence and through the identification, consummation and integration of licensing and acquisition opportunities. This experience is demonstrated through a proven track record of developing businesses and creating value. For example, in recent years, our management team has led our development and commercialization programs for QWO®, which was approved by FDA in July 2020. With our launch of QWO® in March 2021, we have built a new category in the medical aesthetics market with the first and only FDA-approved injectable for moderate to severe cellulite in the buttocks of adult women.

Operational excellence. We have efficient, high-quality manufacturing capabilities across a diversified array of dosage forms in the U.S. and India. We believe our comprehensive suite of technology, manufacturing and development competencies increases the likelihood of success in commercializing high-barrier-to-entry products and obtaining first-to-file and first-to-market status on future products, yielding more sustainable market share and profitability. For example, our expanding capabilities in the rapidly growing U.S. market for sterile products afford us with a broader and more diversified product portfolio and a greater selection of targets for potential development.

We believe that our competitive advantages include our integrated team-based approach to product development that combines our global formulation, regulatory, legal, manufacturing and commercial capabilities; our ability to introduce new generic equivalents for brand-name products; our quality and cost-effective production; our ability to meet customer and/or patient expectations and the breadth of our existing product offerings.

Growth of our branded Specialty Products portfolio while leveraging the strength of our Established Products portfolio. We have assembled a portfolio of branded products offered by our Branded Pharmaceuticals segment in the areas of urology, orthopedics, endocrinology, medical aesthetics and bariatrics, among others. Additional information on these product portfolios is included below under the heading “Products Overview.”

2
Optimizing our portfolios to focus on differentiated products. By leveraging operational efficiency and taking actions to optimize our cost structure when appropriate, we aim to be low-cost producers of high-barrier-to-entry products, including products that meet the evolving needs of hospitals and health systems, including RTU sterile injectable products, and first-to-file and first-to-market generic opportunities that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or face complex legal and regulatory challenges. We believe that focusing on products with these characteristics will result in products with longer life cycles and higher profitability than products without these characteristics.

Continuing proactive diversification of our business. Our primary focus is on organic growth. However, we plan to continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, execute on opportunities to expand through the licensing or acquisition of products or companies in areas that will serve patients and customers and that we believe will offer attractive growth characteristics and margins. In particular, we intend to continue to enhance our product lines by acquiring or licensing rights to additional products and regularly evaluating selective acquisition opportunities.

R&D expertise. Our R&D efforts are focused on the development of a diversified portfolio of innovative and clinically differentiated product candidates. For example, in recent years, our Branded Pharmaceuticals research has focused on leveraging our expertise in collagenase clostridium histolyticum (CCH) and seeking additional novel indications for this class of biologics. Our Sterile Injectables and Generic Pharmaceuticals segments seek out and develop high-barrier-to-entry products, with an emphasis on complex sterile injectable products, such as RTU products, and first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities. We periodically review our R&D pipeline in order to better direct investment toward those opportunities that we expect will deliver the greatest returns. Our current R&D pipeline consists of products in various stages of development and reflects our expanded focus on Sterile Injectables products and solutions. For additional detail, see “Select Development Projects.” Our R&D and regulatory affairs staff is based primarily in India and Pennsylvania.

Targeted sales and marketing capabilities. Our sales and marketing activities are based in the U.S. and Canada and primarily focus on the promotion of our Specialty Products portfolio and Sterile Injectables segment.

We market our Specialty Products directly to specialty physicians, including those specializing in urology, orthopedics, medical aesthetics, pediatric endocrinology and bariatric surgery. Our sales force also directs its marketing efforts on retail pharmacies and other healthcare professionals. We distribute our Specialty Products through independent wholesale distributors, but we also sell directly to retailers, clinics, government agencies, doctors, independent retail and specialty pharmacies and independent specialty distributors. Our marketing policy is designed to provide physicians, pharmacies, hospitals, public and private payers and appropriate healthcare professionals with products and appropriate medical information. We work to gain access to various formularies (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products) and reimbursement lists by demonstrating the qualities and treatment benefits of our products within their approved indications.

In addition to advertising in professional journals, participating in medical meetings and conventions and utilizing direct mail and internet programs to provide descriptive product literature and scientific information, we have also utilized both branded and unbranded marketing and public relations campaigns across digital, social and television platforms to reach our target consumers. For example, throughout 2021, we conducted a multi-channel cellulite condition awareness campaign, Really Cellulite, and, during the fourth quarter of 2021, we launched a new multi-channel branded advertising campaign for XIAFLEX® for the treatment of Peyronie’s disease (PD), including our first-ever television commercial for XIAFLEX®.

Our dedicated Sterile Injectables sales and marketing team is focused on health systems and national group purchasing organizations (GPOs). Our customers’ growing complexity requires us to engage directly with key stakeholders and decision makers. Our experienced sales and marketing team is key to growing our existing portfolio and executing on new product launches.

3
Products Overview

Branded Pharmaceuticals

The following table displays the revenues from external customers of our Branded Pharmaceuticals segment for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1) Products included within Other Specialty include NASCOBAL® Nasal Spray, AVEED® and QWO®.

(2) Products included within Other Established include, but are not limited to, EDEX® and LIDODERM®.

(3) Individual products presented above represent the top two performing products in each product category for the year ended December 31, 2021 and/or any product having revenues in excess of $25 million during any quarterly period in 2021 or 2020.

Specialty Products Portfolio

Endo commercializes a number of products within the market served by specialty distributors and specialty pharmacies and in which healthcare practitioners can purchase and bill payers directly (the buy and bill market). Our current offerings primarily relate to the following areas: (i) urology treatments, which currently focus mainly on PD and testosterone replacement therapies (TRT) for hypogonadism, (ii) orthopedics treatments, which currently focus on Dupuytren’s contracture (DC), (iii) pediatric endocrinology treatments, which currently focus on central precocious puberty (CPP), and (iv) medical aesthetics treatments, which currently focus on cellulite. Key product offerings in this portfolio include the following:

•XIAFLEX®, which is a non-surgical treatment for both DC (for adult patients with an abnormal buildup of collagen in the fingers that limits or disables hand function) and PD (for adult men with a collagen plaque and a penile curvature deformity of thirty degrees or greater at the start of therapy).

•SUPPRELIN® LA, which is a soft, flexible 12-month hydrogel implant based on our hydrogel polymer technology that delivers histrelin acetate, a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist, and is indicated for the treatment of CPP in children.

•NASCOBAL® Nasal Spray, which is a prescription nasal spray used as a supplement to treat vitamin B12 deficiency.

•AVEED®, which is a novel, long-acting testosterone undecanoate for injection for the treatment of hypogonadism that is dosed only five times per year after the first month of therapy.

•QWO®, which is an injectable treatment for moderate to severe cellulite in the buttocks of adult women.

Established Products Portfolio

This portfolio’s current treatment offerings primarily relate to the following areas: (i) pain management, including products in the opioid analgesics segment and for the treatment of pain associated with post-herpetic neuralgia, and (ii) urology, focusing mainly on the treatment of hypogonadism. Key product offerings in this portfolio include, among others, the following:

•PERCOCET®, which is an opioid analgesic approved for the treatment of moderate to moderately-severe pain.

•TESTOPEL®, which is a unique, long-acting implantable pellet indicated for TRT in conditions associated with a deficiency or absence of endogenous testosterone.

•EDEX®, which is a penile injection used to treat erectile dysfunction caused by conditions affecting nerves, blood vessels, emotions and/or a combination of factors.

•LIDODERM®, which is a topical patch product containing lidocaine that is approved for the relief of pain associated with post-herpetic neuralgia, a condition thought to result after nerve fibers are damaged during a case of herpes zoster (commonly known as shingles).

The Company’s pain products, including opioid products, are managed as mature brands and are not and have not been actively promoted for years. In December 2016, the Company announced the elimination of its entire U.S. pain product field sales force.

4
Sterile Injectables

The following table displays the revenues from external customers of our Sterile Injectables segment for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Products included within Other Sterile Injectables include ertapenem for injection, APLISOL® and others.

(2)Individual products presented above represent the top two performing products within the Sterile Injectables segment for the year ended December 31, 2021 and/or any product having revenues in excess of $25 million during any quarterly period in 2021 or 2020.

The Sterile Injectables segment includes a product portfolio of approximately 35 product families, including branded sterile injectable products that are currently protected by certain patent rights and have inherent scientific, regulatory, legal and technical complexities and generic injectable products that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or face complex legal and regulatory challenges. Our sterile injectables products are manufactured in sterile facilities in various dosage forms and are administered at hospitals, clinics and long-term care facilities. Key product offerings in this segment include, among others, the following:

•VASOSTRICT®, which is indicated to increase blood pressure in adults with vasodilatory shock who remain hypotensive despite fluids and catecholamines. We offer VASOSTRICT® in multiple formulations, including the RTU pre-mix bottle we launched in February 2022.

•ADRENALIN®, which is a non-selective alpha and beta adrenergic agonist indicated for emergency treatment of certain allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis.

•Ertapenem for injection (the authorized generic of Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.’s (Merck) Invanz®), which is indicated for the treatment of certain moderate to severe infections.

•APLISOL®, which is a sterile aqueous solution of a purified protein derivative for intradermal administration as an aid in the diagnosis of tuberculosis.

•Ephedrine sulfate injection, which is an alpha and beta adrenergic agonist and a norepinephrine-releasing agent indicated for the treatment of clinically important hypotension occurring in the setting of anesthesia.

Generic Pharmaceuticals

The Generic Pharmaceuticals segment includes a product portfolio of approximately 125 generic product families including solid oral extended-release, solid oral immediate-release, liquids, semi-solids, patches (which are medicated adhesive patches designed to deliver the pharmaceutical through the skin), powders, ophthalmics (which are sterile pharmaceutical preparations administered for ocular conditions) and sprays and includes products that treat and manage a wide variety of medical conditions.

Generic products are the pharmaceutical and therapeutic equivalents of branded products and are generally sold under their generic (chemical) names rather than their brand names. Generic products are substantially the same as branded products in dosage form, safety, efficacy, route of administration, quality, performance characteristics and intended use, but are generally sold at prices below those of the corresponding branded products and thus represent cost-effective alternatives for consumers.

Typically, a generic product may not be marketed until the expiration of applicable patent(s) on the corresponding branded product unless a resolution of patent litigation results in an earlier opportunity to enter the market. For additional detail, see “Governmental Regulation.” However, our generics portfolio also contains certain authorized generics, which are generic versions of branded products licensed by brand drug companies under an NDA and marketed as generics. Authorized generics do not face the same regulatory barriers to introduction and are not prohibited from sale during the 180-day marketing exclusivity period granted to the first-to-file ANDA applicant. Our authorized generics include generic versions of our branded products including, for example, lidocaine patch 5% (LIDODERM®). We also aim to be a partner of choice to large companies seeking authorized generic distributors for their branded products. For example, in January 2021, we launched lubiprostone capsules (the authorized generic of Mallinckrodt plc’s Amitiza®) and, in January 2020, we launched sucralfate oral suspension 1 gm/10 ml (the authorized generic of AbbVie Inc.’s Carafate®).

International Pharmaceuticals

Our International Pharmaceuticals segment includes a variety of specialty pharmaceutical products sold outside the U.S., primarily in Canada through our operating company Paladin Labs Inc. (Paladin). The key products of this segment serve various therapeutic areas, including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, pain, women’s health, oncology and transplantation.

5
Select Development Projects

XIAFLEX®

XIAFLEX® is currently approved by the FDA and marketed in the U.S. for the treatment of both DC and PD (two separate medical therapeutic indications). In early 2020, we announced that we had initiated our XIAFLEX® development programs for the treatment of plantar fibromatosis and adhesive capsulitis, which are continuing to progress. For example, we recently progressed our plantar fibromatosis development program with the initiation of a Phase 2 study in the fourth quarter of 2021. We may in the future develop our XIAFLEX® product for potential additional medical therapeutics indications, advancing our strategy of developing non-surgical orthopedic care solutions.

QWO®

QWO® was approved by the FDA in July 2020 for the treatment of moderate to severe cellulite in the buttocks of adult women (a medical aesthetics indication). During 2020, we put in place a U.S. aesthetics commercial team and the capabilities that enabled us to launch QWO® in March 2021. We have been progressing and expect to continue to progress our cellulite treatment development programs for QWO®. We may in the future initiate QWO® development programs for potential additional medical aesthetics indications.

As further described in Note 5. Acquisitions and Note 12. License and Collaboration Agreements in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report, we completed our acquisition of BioSpecifics Technologies Corp., a Delaware corporation and a commercial-stage biopharmaceutical company (BioSpecifics) in December 2020. Prior to this acquisition, we had a strategic relationship with BioSpecifics since 2004 pursuant to which BioSpecifics was, among other things, entitled to a royalty stream from us related to our collagenase-based therapies, including XIAFLEX® and QWO®. Subsequent to the acquisition, BioSpecifics became our wholly-owned consolidated subsidiary.

Other

Our remaining pipeline consists mainly of a variety of product candidates in our Sterile Injectables and Generic Pharmaceuticals segments. As of December 31, 2021, these two segments were actively pursuing approximately 80 product candidates, including: (i) approximately 40 ANDAs pending with the FDA, approximately half of which represent first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities, and (ii) approximately 40 additional projects in development, more than 85% of which are associated with our Sterile Injectables segment, including RTU and other more differentiated product candidates.

Our primary approach to developing generic products for these two segments is to target high-barrier-to-entry product opportunities, including first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or face complex legal and regulatory challenges as well as products that meet the evolving needs of hospitals and health systems. We expect such product opportunities to result in products that are either the exclusive generic or have two or fewer generic competitors when launched, which we believe tends to lead to more sustainable market share and profitability for our product portfolio. In our Sterile Injectables business, we also focus on developing injectable products with inherent scientific, regulatory, legal and technical complexities, as well as developing other dosage forms and technologies.

We periodically review our development projects in order to better direct investment toward those opportunities that we expect will deliver the greatest returns. This process can lead to decisions to discontinue certain R&D projects that may reduce the number of products in our previously reported pipeline.

Major Customers

We primarily sell our products to wholesalers, retail drug store chains, supermarket chains, mass merchandisers, distributors, mail order accounts, hospitals and/or government agencies. Our wholesalers and/or distributors purchase products from us and, in turn, supply products to retail drug store chains, independent pharmacies, hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics, home infusion pharmacies, government facilities and managed care organizations (MCOs). Our current customer group reflects significant consolidation in recent years, marked by mergers and acquisitions and other alliances. Net revenues from direct customers that accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated net revenues during the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenues from these customers are included within each of our segments.

6
Some wholesalers and distributors have required pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us, to enter into distribution service agreements (DSAs) pursuant to which the wholesalers and distributors provide pharmaceutical manufacturers with certain services as well as certain information including, without limitation, periodic retail demand information, current inventory levels and other information. We have entered into certain of these agreements.

Competition

Branded Products

Our branded products compete with products manufactured by many other companies in highly competitive markets.

We compete principally through targeted product development and through our acquisition and in-licensing strategies, where we face intense competition as a result of the limited number of assets available and the number of competitors bidding on such assets. In addition to product development and acquisitions, other competitive factors with respect to branded products include product efficacy, safety, ease of use, price, demonstrated cost-effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, service, reputation and access to technical information.

Branded products often must compete with therapeutically similar branded or generic products or with generic equivalents. Such competition frequently increases over time. For example, if competitors introduce new products, delivery systems or processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products could be subject to progressive price reductions and/or decreased volume of sales. To successfully compete for business, we must often demonstrate that our products offer not only medical benefits, but also cost advantages as compared with other forms of care. Accordingly, we face pressure to continually seek out technological innovations and to market our products effectively.

Manufacturers of generic products typically invest far less in R&D than research-based companies and can therefore price their products significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a branded product loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product. Due to lower prices, generic versions, where available, may be substituted by pharmacies or required in preference to branded versions under third-party reimbursement programs.

Branded Pharmaceuticals

This segment’s major competitors, including Viatris Inc. (Viatris), AbbVie Inc., Jazz Pharmaceuticals plc, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, Horizon Therapeutics Public Limited Company, AbbVie Inc. and Revance Therapeutics, Inc., among others, vary depending on therapeutic and product category, dosage strength and drug-delivery systems, among other factors.

Several of this segment’s products, such as PERCOCET®, TESTOPEL®, LIDODERM® and SUPPRELIN® LA, face generic and/or other forms of competition. The degree of generic and/or other competition facing this segment could increase in the future. 

Sterile Injectables

This segment’s major competitors, including Hospira, Inc. (a subsidiary of Pfizer Inc.), Fresenius Kabi USA, LLC (Fresenius), Viatris, Amphastar Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Amneal Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amneal), Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC, Sandoz (a division of Novartis AG) and Eagle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Eagle), among others, vary by product. A significant portion of our sales, including sales to hospitals, clinics and long-term care facilities in the U.S., are controlled by a relatively small number of GPOs, including HealthTrust Purchasing Group, L.P., Premier Inc. and Vizient, Inc. Accordingly, it is important for us to have strong relationships with these GPOs and achieve on-time product launches in order to secure new bid opportunities.

This segment’s products, including VASOSTRICT® and ADRENALIN®, face generic and/or other forms of competition. During the first quarter of 2022, multiple competing generic alternatives to VASOSTRICT® were launched, beginning with Eagle’s generic, which it launched at risk and began shipping toward the end of January 2022. Since then, additional competing alternatives have entered the market, including an authorized generic. The degree of generic and/or other competition facing this segment is expected to increase in the future.

Generic Products

Generic products generally face intense competition from branded equivalents, other generic equivalents (including authorized generics) and therapeutically similar branded or generic products. Our major competitors, including Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Limited, Viatris, Sandoz, Aurobindo Pharma Limited and Amneal, among others, vary by product.

Consolidations of our customer base described above under the heading “Major Customers” have resulted in increased pricing and other competitive pressures on pharmaceutical companies, including us. Additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and other distributors and the prevalence and influence of MCOs and similar institutions have increased the negotiating power of these groups, enabling them to attempt to extract various demands, including without limitation price discounts, rebates and other restrictive pricing terms. These competitive trends could continue in the future and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

7
Newly introduced generic products with limited or no other generic competition typically garner higher prices relative to commoditized generic products. As such, our primary strategy is to compete with a focus on high-value, first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities, regardless of therapeutic category, and products that present significant barriers to entry for reasons such as complex formulation or regulatory or legal challenges. For additional detail, see “Our Competitive Strengths - Optimizing our portfolios to focus on differentiated products.”

Even if we are successful in launching generic products with statutory generic exclusivity, competitors may enter the market when such exclusivity periods expire, resulting in significant price declines. Consequently, the success of our generics efforts depends on our continuing ability to select, develop, procure regulatory approvals of, overcome legal challenges to, launch and commercialize new generic products in a timely and cost efficient manner and to maintain efficient, high quality manufacturing capabilities. For additional detail, see “Our Competitive Strengths - Operational excellence.”

Seasonality

Although our business is affected by the purchasing patterns and concentration of our customers, our business is not materially impacted by seasonality.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses and Proprietary Property

We regard the protection of patents and other enforceable intellectual property rights that we own or license as critical to our business and competitive position. Accordingly, we rely on patent, trade secret and copyright law, as well as nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, to protect our intellectual property. We have a portfolio of patents and patent applications owned or licensed by us that cover aspects of our products. These patents and applications generally include claims directed to the compounds and/or methods of using the compounds, formulations of the compounds, pharmaceutical salt forms of the compounds or methods of manufacturing the compounds. Our policy is to pursue patent applications on inventions that we believe are commercially important to the development and growth of our business. Certain patents relating to products that are the subject of approved NDAs are listed in the FDA publication, “Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations” (Orange Book). The table below contains a list from the Orange Book of patent expiration dates for certain products we market.

The Orange Book does not include a listing of patents related to biological products. Included below is information about certain products for which we own or license a BLA along with the date of expiration of certain relevant patents or regulatory exclusivity. In addition, we may have other relevant regulatory protection or patents that may extend beyond the expiration dates provided below. We may also obtain further patents or additional regulatory or patent exclusivity for one or more indications for a product in the future.

As of February 21, 2022, we held approximately: 154 U.S. issued patents, 30 U.S. patent applications pending, 440 foreign issued patents and 115 foreign patent applications pending. In addition, as of February 21, 2022, we had licenses for approximately 57 U.S. issued patents, 18 U.S. patent applications pending, 166 foreign issued patents and 89 foreign patent applications pending.

Our products are subject to different patent expiration dates. For example, our patents related to NASCOBAL® Nasal Spray expire in 2024, our patents related to AVEED® expire in 2027 and our patents related to ADRENALIN® expire in 2035. We have obtained and are seeking additional patent protection for several other products that will expire into the late 2030s/early 2040s, including XIAFLEX® and QWO®.

Our patents provide protection by allowing us to exclude others from making, using, selling, offering for sale or importing that which is covered by the patent claims. When patent protection is not feasible, we may rely on trade secrets, non-patented proprietary know-how or continuing technological innovation. Many of our products are sold under trademarks. We also rely on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other parties to protect, among other things, trade secrets and other proprietary information.

There can be no assurance that our patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights will afford us protection from competition. For example, in August 2021, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware held that Eagle’s proposed vasopressin product did not infringe our asserted patent claims related to VASOSTRICT®. The expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge typically results in significant competition from generic products or biosimilars against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in revenues for that product in a very short period of time that may never be reversed. In some cases, however, it is possible to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets, patents on uses for products, patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients or patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms. There can also be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop equivalent proprietary information or that other third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and other intellectual property.

8
Additionally, any pending or future patent applications made by us or our subsidiaries, our license partners or entities we may acquire in the future are subject to risks and uncertainties. The coverage claimed in any such patent applications could be significantly reduced before the patent is issued and there can be no assurance that any such applications will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are issued, whether they will provide significant proprietary protection or will be challenged, circumvented or invalidated. Because unissued U.S. patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of eighteen months and certain U.S. patent applications are not disclosed until the patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain of the priority of inventions covered by pending patent applications. Moreover, we may have to participate in interference and other inter-parties proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) to determine priority of invention, or in opposition proceedings in a foreign patent office, either of which could result in substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. There can be no assurance that any patents, if issued, will be held valid by a court of competent jurisdiction. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using such technology. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “Our ability to protect and maintain our proprietary and licensed third party technology, which is vital to our business, is uncertain.”

We may find it necessary to initiate litigation to enforce our patent rights, to protect our intellectual property or trade secrets or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. However, litigation is costly and time-consuming and there can be no assurance that we will prevail. Any successful challenges to our intellectual property rights may result in a significant loss of revenue. See Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Governmental Regulation

FDA and U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA)

The pharmaceutical industry in the U.S. is subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA), the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, injunctions and refusal of the government to enter into supply contracts or to approve NDAs, ANDAs, BLAs and/or other similar applications.

FDA approval is typically required before any new pharmaceutical or biologic product can be marketed. An NDA or BLA is a filing submitted to the FDA to obtain approval of new chemical entities and other innovations for which thorough applied research is required to demonstrate safety and effectiveness in use. The process generally involves, among other things:

•completion of preclinical laboratory and animal testing and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA’s Good Laboratory Practice regulations;

•submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug application (IND) for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin in the U.S.;

•approval by an independent institutional review board before each trial may be initiated and continuing review during the trial;

•performance of human clinical trials, including adequate and well-controlled clinical trials in accordance with good clinical practice, the protocol and the IND to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed product for each intended use;

•submission to the FDA of an NDA or BLA for marketing approval, which must include data from preclinical testing and clinical trials;

•satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the product’s manufacturing processes and facility or facilities to assess compliance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations and/or review of the Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls section of the NDA or BLA to assess whether the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the proposed product’s identity, strength, quality, purity and potency;

•payment of user fees for FDA review of an NDA or BLA unless a fee waiver applies;

•agreement with the FDA on the final labeling for the product and the design and implementation of any required Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS);

•satisfactory completion of an FDA advisory committee review, if applicable; and

•approval by the FDA of the NDA or BLA.

Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, although the phases may overlap or be combined. Those phases include:

•Phase 1 trials generally involve testing the product for safety, adverse effects, dosage, tolerance, absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion and other elements of clinical pharmacology.

9
•Phase 2 trials typically involve a small sample of the intended patient population to assess the efficacy of the compound for a specific indication, to determine dose tolerance and the optimal dose range and to gather additional information relating to safety and potential adverse effects.

•Phase 3 trials are undertaken in an expanded patient population, typically at dispersed study sites, in order to determine the overall risk-benefit ratio of the compound and to provide an adequate basis for product labeling.

Each trial is conducted in accordance with certain standards under protocols that detail the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used to monitor safety and the efficacy criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Clinical trials, clinical investigators and the trial sponsor are also subject to regulatory inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities to confirm compliance with applicable regulatory standards. The process of completing clinical trials for a new product may take many years and require the expenditures of substantial resources. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “The pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, which creates uncertainty about our ability to bring new products to market and imposes substantial compliance costs on our business, including withdrawal or suspension of existing products.” 

As a condition of approval of an NDA or BLA, the FDA may require further studies, including Phase 4 post-marketing studies or post-marketing data reporting, such as evaluating known or signaled safety risks. Results of post-marketing programs may limit or expand the future marketing of the products and result in the FDA requiring labeling changes, including the addition of risk information.

For some products, the FDA may require a REMS to confirm that a drug’s benefits outweigh its risks. REMS could include medication guides, physician communication plans or other elements. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “The pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, which creates uncertainty about our ability to bring new products to market and imposes substantial compliance costs on our business, including withdrawal or suspension of existing products.”

In most instances, FDA approval of an ANDA is required before a generic equivalent of an existing or reference-listed drug can be marketed. The ANDA process is abbreviated in that the FDA waives the requirement of conducting complete preclinical and clinical studies and generally instead relies principally on bioequivalence studies. Bioequivalence generally involves a comparison of the rate of absorption and levels of concentration of a generic product in the body with those of the previously approved product. When the rate and extent of absorption of systemically acting test and reference drugs are considered the same under the bioequivalence requirement, the two products are considered bioequivalent and are generally regarded as therapeutically equivalent (so long as the products also have the same active ingredient(s), strength/concentration, dosage form and route of administration), meaning that a pharmacist can substitute the generic product for the reference-listed drug. Under certain circumstances, an ANDA may also be submitted for a product authorized by approval of an ANDA suitability petition. Such petitions may be submitted to secure authorization to file an ANDA for a product that differs from a previously approved product in active ingredient, route of administration, dosage form or strength. In September 2007 and July 2012, the U.S. Congress re-authorized pediatric testing legislation, which now requires ANDAs approved via the suitability petition route to conduct pediatric testing. The timing of final FDA approval of an ANDA application depends on a variety of factors, including whether the applicant challenges any listed patents for the reference-listed drug and whether the manufacturer of the reference-listed drug is entitled to one or more statutory exclusivity periods during which the FDA is prohibited from finally approving generic products. In certain circumstances, a regulatory exclusivity period can extend beyond the life of a patent, thus blocking ANDAs from being approved even after the patent expiration date.

Certain of our products are or could become regulated and marketed as biologic products pursuant to BLAs. Our BLA-licensed products were licensed based on a determination by the FDA of safety, purity and potency as required under the Public Health Service Act (PHSA). Although the ANDA framework referenced above does not apply to generics of BLA-licensed biologics, there is an abbreviated licensure pathway for products deemed to be biosimilar to, or interchangeable with, FDA-licensed reference biological products pursuant to the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 (BPCIA). The BPCIA framework was enacted as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) and could be impacted by ongoing litigation regarding the legality of the PPACA. Under the BPCIA, following the expiration of a 12-year reference exclusivity period, the FDA may license, under section 351(k) of the PHSA, a biological product that it determines is biosimilar to, or interchangeable with, a reference product licensed under section 351(a) of the PHSA. Although licensure of biosimilar or interchangeable products is generally expected to require less than the full complement of product-specific preclinical and clinical data required for innovator products, the FDA has considerable discretion over the kind and amount of scientific evidence required to demonstrate biosimilarity and interchangeability.

10
Some pharmaceutical products are available in the U.S. that are not the subject of an FDA-approved NDA. In 2011, the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) Office of Compliance modified its enforcement policy with regard to the marketing of such “unapproved” marketed products (the Unapproved Drug Initiative). Under CDER’s revised guidance, the FDA encourages manufacturers to obtain NDA approvals for such products by requiring unapproved versions to be removed from the market after an approved version has been introduced, subject to a grace period at the FDA’s discretion. This grace period is intended to allow an orderly transition of supply to the market and to mitigate any potential related product shortage. Depending on the length of the grace period and the time it takes for subsequent applications to be approved, this may result in a period of de facto market exclusivity to the first manufacturer that has obtained an approved NDA for the previously unapproved marketed product. In November 2020, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced that it was withdrawing its Unapproved Drugs Compliance Policy Guidance and terminating the Unapproved Drug Initiative described above. However, in May 2021, HHS withdrew the November 2020 termination notice and stated that the FDA would issue new guidance on its enforcement priorities for unapproved marketed products.

Over-the-counter (OTC) products may, depending on ingredients and proposed label claims, be marketed pursuant to the OTC monograph process or could require NDA or ANDA approval. The OTC monograph process allows for OTC products to be marketed without pre-market approval and generally does not require clinical studies. The Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act, enacted on March 27, 2020, modified this process by introducing administrative orders as a replacement to rulemaking for the development of OTC monographs.

Laws and regulations impacting the pharmaceutical industry are constantly evolving. For example, the 21st Century Cures Act (Cures Act), which was signed into law on December 13, 2016, includes various provisions to accelerate the development and delivery of new treatments, such as those intended to expand the types of evidence manufacturers may submit to support FDA approval, to encourage patient-centered product development, to liberalize the communication of healthcare economic information to payers and to create greater transparency with regard to manufacturer expanded access programs. Central to the Cures Act are provisions that enhance and accelerate the FDA’s processes for reviewing and approving new products and supplements to approved NDAs. The Cures Act also included $1 billion in new funding to states to supplement opioid abuse prevention and treatment activities.

More recently, in December 2019, the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (FCAA 2020) became law. Section 610 of Division N Title I, titled “Actions for Delays of Generic Drugs and Biological Products,” provides generic (ANDA and 505(b)(2)) and biosimilar developers with a private right of action to obtain sufficient quantities of reference product from the brand manufacturer, or a generic or biosimilar manufacturer, necessary for approval of the developers’ generic or biosimilar product. If a generic or biosimilar developer is successful in its suit, the defendant manufacturer would be required to provide sufficient quantities of product on commercially-reasonable, market-based terms and may be required to pay the developer’s reasonable attorney’s fees and costs as well as financial compensation under certain circumstances. The purpose of section 610 is to promote competition by facilitating the timely entry of lower-cost generic and biosimilar products. In addition, on March 27, 2020, Congress enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Among other provisions, the CARES Act made a number of changes to the FFDCA aimed at preventing drug shortages. Similarly, the FDA has issued a number of guidance documents describing the agency’s expectations for how drug manufacturers should comply with various FDA requirements during the pandemic, including with respect to conducting clinical trials, distributing drug samples and reporting post-marketing adverse events. Moreover, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been increasing political and regulatory scrutiny of foreign-sourced drugs and foreign drug supply chains, resulting in proposed legislative and executive actions, including executive orders, to incentivize or compel drug manufacturing operations to relocate to the U.S.

A sponsor of an NDA is required to identify, in its application, any patent that claims the drug or a use of the drug subject to the application. Upon NDA approval, the FDA lists these patents in a publication referred to as the Orange Book. Any person that files an ANDA or NDA under Section 505(b)(2) of the FFDCA referencing the approved drug must make a certification in respect to any listed patents for the reference drug. The FDA may not approve such an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application until expiration of the reference drug’s listed patents unless (i) the applicant certifies that the listed patents are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed by the proposed generic drug and gives notice to the holder of the NDA for the listed drug of the basis upon which the patents are challenged and (ii) the holder of the listed drug does not sue the later applicant for patent infringement within 45 days of receipt of notice. Under the current law, if an infringement suit is filed, the FDA may not approve the later application until the earliest of: (i) 30 months after submission; (ii) entry of an appellate court judgment holding the patent invalid, unenforceable or not infringed; (iii) such time as a court may order; or (iv) expiration of the patent.

11
One of the key motivators for challenging patents is the 180-day marketing exclusivity period granted to the developer of a generic version of a product that is the first to have a substantially complete ANDA received for review by the FDA and whose filing includes a certification that a reference product’s listed patent(s) are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed (a Paragraph IV certification) and that otherwise does not forfeit eligibility for the exclusivity. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, with accompanying amendments to the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act (the Hatch-Waxman Act), this marketing exclusivity would begin to run upon the earlier of the commercial launch of the generic product or upon an appellate court decision in the generic company’s favor or in favor of another ANDA applicant who had filed with a Paragraph IV certification and has tentative approval. In addition, the holder of the NDA for the listed drug may be entitled to certain non-patent exclusivity during which, depending on the type of exclusivity, the FDA either cannot accept or approve an application for a competing ANDA generic product or 505(b)(2) NDA product with the same active moiety. Depending on the exclusivity, the protection may apply to all of the reference drug’s approved conditions of use, or may be limited to a certain condition of use or other protected label information.

The FDA also regulates pharmacies and outsourcing facilities that prepare “compounded” drugs pursuant to section 503A and 503B of the FFDCA, respectively. For instance, under section 503A of the FFDCA, pharmacies may compound drugs for an identified individual based on the receipt of a valid prescription order, or notation approved by the prescribing practitioner, that a compounded product is necessary for the identified patient. Similarly, under section 503B of the FFDCA, outsourcing facilities may compound drugs and sell them to healthcare providers, but not wholesalers or distributors. Although section 503A pharmacies and section 503B outsourcing facilities are subject to many regulatory requirements, compounded drugs are not subject to premarket review by the FDA and, therefore, may not have the same level of safety and efficacy as products subject to premarket review and approval by the FDA. Because they are not subject to premarket review, compounded drugs are frequently lower cost than either branded or generic products.

The FDA enforces regulations to require that the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the manufacture, processing, packing and holding of drugs conform to cGMPs. The cGMP regulations the FDA enforces are comprehensive and cover all aspects of manufacturing operations. Compliance with the regulations requires a continuous commitment of time, money and effort in all operational areas.

The FDA conducts pre-approval inspections of facilities engaged in the development, manufacture, processing, packing, testing and holding of the products subject to NDAs and ANDAs and pre-license inspections of facilities engaged in similar activities for biologic products subject to BLAs. In addition, manufacturers of both pharmaceutical products and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) used to formulate such products also ordinarily undergo pre-approval inspections. Failure of any facility to pass a pre-approval inspection will result in delayed approval.

Facilities that manufacture pharmaceutical or biological products must be registered with the FDA and all such products made in such facilities must be manufactured in accordance with the latest cGMP regulations. The FDA conducts periodic inspections of facilities to assess the cGMP status of marketed products. Following such inspections, the FDA could issue a Form 483 Notice of Inspectional Observations, which could require modification to certain activities identified during the inspection. If the FDA were to find serious cGMP non-compliance during such an inspection, it could take regulatory actions. The FDA also may issue an untitled letter as an initial correspondence that cites violations that do not meet the threshold of regulatory significance for a Warning Letter. FDA guidelines also provide for the issuance of Warning Letters for violations of “regulatory significance” for which the failure to adequately and promptly achieve correction may be expected to result in an enforcement action.

Imported API and other components needed to manufacture our products could be rejected by U.S. Customs. In respect to domestic establishments, the FDA could initiate product seizures or request, or in some instances require, product recalls and seek to enjoin or otherwise limit a product’s manufacture and distribution. In certain circumstances, violations could support civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. In addition, if the FDA concludes that a company is not in compliance with cGMP requirements, sanctions may be imposed that include preventing that company from receiving the necessary licenses to export its products and classifying that company as an unacceptable supplier, thereby disqualifying that company from selling products to federal agencies.

Certain of our subsidiaries sell products that are “controlled substances” as defined in the CSA and implementing regulations, which establish certain security and recordkeeping requirements administered by the DEA. The DEA regulates chemical compounds as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances, with Schedule I substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest risk. The active ingredients in some of our products are listed by the DEA as Schedule II or III substances under the CSA. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use are subject to a high degree of regulation. 

The DEA limits the availability of the active ingredients that are subject to the CSA used in several of our products as well as the production of these products. We or our contract manufacturing organizations must annually apply to the DEA for procurement and production quotas in order to obtain and produce these substances. As a result, our quotas may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. Moreover, the DEA may adjust these quotas from time to time during the year, although the DEA has substantial discretion in whether or not to make such adjustments. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “The DEA limits the availability of the active ingredients used in many of our products as well as the production of these products, and, as a result, our procurement and production quotas may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials.”

12
To meet its responsibilities, the DEA conducts periodic inspections of registered establishments that handle controlled substances. Annual registration is required for any facility that manufactures, tests, distributes, dispenses, imports or exports any controlled substance. The facilities must have the security, control, accounting mechanisms and monitoring systems required by the DEA to prevent loss and diversion of controlled substances and to comply with reporting obligations. Failure to maintain compliance can result in enforcement action. The DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations or initiate proceedings to revoke or restrict those registrations or, with the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), seek to impose civil penalties. In certain circumstances, violations could result in criminal proceedings.

In October 2018, the U.S. Congress enacted the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6). Intended to achieve sweeping reform to combat opioid abuse, H.R. 6, among other provisions, amends related laws administered by the FDA, DEA and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Among other things, the law: (i) amends requirements related to the FDA’s authority to include packaging requirements in REMS requirements; (ii) increases civil and criminal penalties for manufacturers and distributors for failing to maintain effective controls against diversion of opioids or for failing to report suspicious opioid orders; (iii) requires the DEA to estimate the amount of opioid diversion when establishing manufacturing and procurement quotas; (iv) implements expanded anti-kickback and financial disclosure provisions; and (v) authorizes HHS to implement a demonstration program which would award grants to hospitals and emergency departments to develop, implement, enhance or study alternative pain management protocols and treatments that limit the use and prescription of opioids in emergency departments.

Individual states also regulate controlled substances and we, as well as our third-party API suppliers and manufacturers, are subject to such regulation by several states with respect to the manufacture and distribution of these products.

Government Benefit Programs

As described further in Item 1A. Risk Factors, statutory and regulatory requirements for government healthcare programs such as Medicaid, Medicare and TRICARE govern access and provider reimbursement levels, and provide for other cost-containment measures such as requiring pharmaceutical companies to pay rebates or refunds for certain sales of products reimbursed by such programs, or subjecting products to certain price ceilings. In addition to the cost-containment measures described in Item 1A. Risk Factors, sales to retail pharmacies under the TRICARE Retail Pharmacy Program are subject to certain price ceilings which require manufacturers to, among other things, pay refunds for prescriptions filled based on the applicable ceiling price limits. Beginning in the first quarter of 2017, pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, manufacturers are required to pay additional rebates to state Medicaid programs if the prices of their non-innovator products rise at a rate faster than inflation (as continues to be the case for innovator products); this requirement previously existed only as to branded or innovator products and the change in law may impact our business.

The federal government may continue to pursue legislation aimed at containing or reducing payment levels for prescription pharmaceuticals paid for in whole or in part with government funds. State governments also may continue to enact similar cost containment or transparency legislation. These efforts could have material consequences for the pharmaceutical industry and the Company. From time to time, legislative changes are made to government healthcare programs that impact our business. The U.S. Congress continues to examine various Medicare and Medicaid policy proposals that may result in a downward pressure on the prices of prescription products in these programs, including, most recently, as part of the House-passed Build Back Better Act. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “The availability of third party reimbursement for our products is uncertain, and we may find it difficult to maintain current price levels. Additionally, the market may not accept those products for which third party reimbursement is not adequately provided.”

Under the PPACA, pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription products must pay an annual fee to the federal government. Each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer must pay a prorated share of the total industry fee based on the dollar value of its branded prescription product sales to specified federal programs.

Uncertainty continues to exist about the future of the PPACA as the past administration and congressional leaders took steps to repeal key PPACA provisions and the PPACA has been and continues to be subject to court challenges. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) repealed the requirement that individuals maintain health insurance coverage or face a penalty (known as the individual mandate). In June 2021, the U.S. Supreme Court held that state and individual plaintiffs did not have standing to challenge the minimum essential coverage provision of the PPACA; in so holding, the U.S. Supreme Court did not consider larger constitutional questions about the validity of this provision or the validity of the PPACA in its entirety. Ongoing efforts to repeal, substantially amend, eliminate or reduce funding for the PPACA may threaten the stability of the insurance marketplace and may have consequences for the coverage and accessibility of prescription drugs. The current administration intends to strengthen and build upon the PPACA. In particular, the House-passed Build Back Better Act seeks to extend certain PPACA premium tax credits and temporarily close the so-called Medicaid coverage gap in states that have not adopted PPACA provisions to expand such coverage.

13
Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, violations of which can lead to civil and criminal penalties, including fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. These laws are potentially applicable to us as both a manufacturer and a supplier of products reimbursed by federal healthcare programs, and they also apply to hospitals, physicians and other potential purchasers of our products.

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute (42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b) prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, recommending or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Remuneration is not defined in the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including for example, gifts, discounts, coupons, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, payments of cash, waivers of payments, ownership interests and providing anything at less than its fair market value. Under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the applicable criminal healthcare fraud statutes contained within 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b, a person or entity need not have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, the government may assert that a claim, including items or services resulting from a violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b, constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act (discussed below) or the civil monetary penalties statute, which imposes fines against any person who is determined to have presented or caused to be presented claims to a federal healthcare program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute and implementing regulations provide for certain exceptions for “safe harbors” for certain discounting, rebating or personal services arrangements, among other things, which were amended in 2020. However, the lack of uniform court interpretation of the Anti-Kickback Statute, coupled with novel enforcement theories by government authorities and stayed implementation of certain regulatory changes, make compliance with the law difficult. Violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute can result in significant criminal fines, exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid and follow-on civil litigation, among other things, for both entities and individuals.

The civil False Claims Act and similar state laws impose liability on any person or entity who, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal healthcare program. The qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act and similar state laws allow a private individual to bring civil actions on behalf of the federal or state government and to share in any monetary recovery. The Federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act and similar state laws impose reporting requirements for various types of payments to physicians and teaching hospitals. Failure to comply with reporting requirements under these laws could subject manufacturers and others to substantial civil money penalties. In addition, government entities and private litigants have asserted claims under state consumer protection statutes against pharmaceutical and medical device companies for alleged false or misleading statements in connection with the marketing, promotion and/or sale of pharmaceutical and medical device products, including state investigations of the Company regarding vaginal mesh devices previously sold by certain of our operating subsidiaries and investigations and litigation by certain government entities regarding the prior promotional practices of certain of our operating subsidiaries with respect to opioid products.

International Regulations

Through our international operations, the Company is subject to laws and regulations that differ from those under which the Company operates in the U.S. In most cases, non-U.S. regulatory agencies evaluate and monitor the safety, efficacy and quality of pharmaceutical products, govern the approval of clinical trials and product registrations and regulate pricing and reimbursement. Certain international markets have differing product preferences and requirements and operate in an environment of government-mandated, cost-containment programs, including price controls, such as the Patented Medicine Prices Review Board (PMPRB) in Canada.

In Canada, the Regulations Amending the Patented Medicines Regulations (Additional Factors and Information Reporting Requirements) (the Amendments) were originally scheduled to come into force on July 1, 2020. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Amendments have been delayed and are now set to come into force on July 1, 2022. The Amendments will introduce a number of changes to the regulation of Canadian drug prices by the PMPRB. The PMPRB is an administrative board with a mandate to protect Canadians from excessive pricing of patented medicines. Pharmaceutical manufacturers that are patentees are required to report applicable patents and file sales information so the PMPRB can monitor for excessive pricing as long as the product is considered to be a patented medicine. If it is determined the average price for a patented medicine is too high based on pricing tests developed by the PMPRB, a payment must be made to the PMPRB to offset the excessive revenues that were generated and/or the price of the medicine must be reduced. The PMPRB’s authority to regulate the price of a drug product is linked to patent protection, specifically when there is a patent to an invention that is intended or capable of being used for medicine or for the preparation or production of medicine.

14
For patented medicines approved by Health Canada after August 21, 2019 (a cutoff date tied to the date of publication of the Amendments and not impacted by the delayed coming-into-force date), the Amendments will allow the PMPRB to consider additional factors when assessing whether a price is excessive: pharmacoeconomic value of the medicine in Canada, the size of the market for the medicine in Canada and the gross domestic product (GDP) and GDP per capita of Canada. For all patented medicines (regardless of the date of marketing authorization), the Amendments change the set of countries that the PMPRB uses for international price comparisons when assessing whether the Canadian price is excessive. Under the current regulations, the price of a Canadian medicine is compared to the price of that medicine in seven other countries, including the U.S. and Switzerland. The Amendments define a new set of eleven comparator countries, and the U.S. and Switzerland are no longer part of this basket. The implementation of the new set of comparator countries is expected to cause a decrease to permissible ceiling prices in Canada. Based on the final guidelines released by the PMPRB in October 2020, the ceiling price for a medicine is set by the median international ex-factory list price of the eleven comparator countries for most patented medicines. According to the Regulatory Impact Analysis Statement that accompanied the publication of the Amendments, the Canadian government originally estimated that the Amendments would result in 10-year total savings to public, private and out of pocket-payers of 8.8 billion Canadian dollars as a result of lower patented medicine costs. Although delays to the coming-into-force date may impact some of these savings, Health Canada anticipates that most of these savings will continue to occur as originally estimated.

Certain governments have placed restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic products and enacted across-the-board price cuts as methods of cost control.

Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained for a product, approval of the product by comparable regulatory authorities of other governments must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those jurisdictions. The approval process may be more or less rigorous than the U.S. process and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than in the U.S.

Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to substantial federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other matters, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous substances. Violation of these laws and regulations, which may change, can lead to substantial fines and penalties. Many of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and limit pollution of the environment. We believe that our facilities and the facilities of our third party service providers are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. As part of our ESG strategy, we are committed to operating our business in a responsible manner that seeks to minimize environmental impact, while promoting the safe, efficient and responsible use of global resources.

Service Agreements

We contract with various third parties to provide certain critical services including manufacturing, packaging, supply, warehousing, distribution, customer service, certain financial functions, certain R&D activities and medical affairs, among others.

Refer to Note 12. License and Collaboration Agreements and Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for additional information.

We primarily purchase our raw materials for the production and development of our products in the open market from third party suppliers. We attempt, when possible, to mitigate our raw material supply risks through inventory management and alternative sourcing strategies. However, some raw materials are only available from one source. We are required to identify the suppliers of all raw materials for our products in the drug applications that we file with the FDA. If the raw materials from an approved supplier for a particular product become unavailable, we would be required to qualify a substitute supplier with the FDA, which would likely interrupt manufacturing of the affected product. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion on the risks associated with the sourcing of our raw materials.

License & Collaboration Agreements and Acquisitions

We continue to seek to enhance our product line and develop a diversified portfolio of products through product acquisitions and in-licensing or acquiring licenses to products, compounds and technologies from third parties. The Company enters into strategic alliances and collaborative arrangements with third parties, which give the Company rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are primarily owned by these third parties. These alliances and arrangements can take many forms, including licensing arrangements, co-development and co-marketing agreements, co-promotion arrangements, research collaborations and joint ventures. Such alliances and arrangements enable us to share the risk of incurring all R&D expenses that do not lead to revenue-generating products; however, because profits from alliance products are shared with the counter-parties to the collaborative arrangement, the gross margins on alliance products are generally lower, sometimes substantially so, than the gross margins that could be achieved had the Company not opted for a development partner. Refer to Note 12. License and Collaboration Agreements in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for additional information.

15
Human Capital Resources

As of February 21, 2022, we have 3,103 employees, of which 457 are engaged in R&D and regulatory work, 461 in sales and marketing, 1,119 in manufacturing, 622 in quality assurance and 444 in general and administrative capacities. With the exception of certain production personnel in our Rochester, Michigan manufacturing facility, our employees are generally not represented by unions. We believe that our relations with our employees are good.

Our people strategy is focused on delivering a positive employee experience and fostering a culture of inclusion and belonging where team members can: (i) thrive within a safe working environment supported with excellent benefits; (ii) grow their careers through curiosity, exploration, learning and fulfilling on-the-job experiences; and (iii) connect with each other in a workplace that celebrates diversity and plays a meaningful role in the broader community.

Wellness and Safety

We want our team members to lead healthy lives so that, together as a team, we can better support our vision of helping everyone we serve live their best life. We offer programs intended to promote team members’ physical, personal and financial well-being including medical benefits, disease management programs, stress management support, smoking cessation assistance and discounts for gym memberships. We also want to support the financial well-being of our team members and offer educational sessions on how to take advantage of Endo’s Savings and Investment Plan, as well as our tax-free saving and spending accounts. Additionally, we have a robust safety program designed to educate team members about best practices and to record and/or report safety issues so that we can learn from them and continuously improve.

Workforce flexibility was something Endo needed to fully embrace in 2020, and we were pleased to see how agile, resilient and effective our team was in adapting to this new work environment. In 2021, we introduced flexible work arrangements for all office-based team members, enabling team members to determine where to work. Team members appreciate the flexibility along with the focus on maintaining an engaged, collaborative, performance-driven culture.

Career Development

Endo offers a fast-paced and challenging work environment in which people are encouraged to grow, both professionally and personally. The Company provides a variety of training programs and an educational assistance program to help team members improve their job-related skills and long-term career potential.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

At Endo, our diversity unites us. We are committed to cultivating, valuing and embracing every person’s distinct voice. This includes promoting an environment where our team members welcome the various dimensions of our workplace culture driven by differences in races, genders (including gender identity or expression), national origin, color, sexual orientation, disability status, age and all other unique characteristics. We believe these varied perspectives are valuable and can fuel our innovation and help drive our success. Our DE&I strategy is led by our Global Head of DE&I; is championed by a global and cross-functional DE&I Leadership Council, sponsored by our Chief Executive Officer; and is focused across three strategic priorities: talent, culture and community.

To build a strong pipeline of diverse talent, Endo has taken a number of steps to revamp our recruitment, hiring and interview processes as well as team member training to be intentional and identify ways to mitigate bias and promote inclusion. Endo is also focused on reinforcing a culture where each team member is respected, valued and feels a sense of belonging. This includes offering employee resource groups, such as the recently launched AWE, Alliance for Women at Endo and VET, Veterans at Endo Together. To complement the work we are doing inside Endo to support DE&I initiatives, we are also proud to support the important work of advocacy groups that are advancing diversity, equity and inclusion across our industry and beyond.

Information about our Executive Officers

The following table sets forth, as of March 1, 2022, information about our executive officers:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

16
Blaise Coleman was appointed President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors, effective March 2020. He previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since December 2016. He joined Endo in January 2015 as Vice President of Corporate Financial Planning & Analysis, and was then promoted to Senior Vice President, Global Finance Operations in November 2015. Prior to joining Endo, Mr. Coleman held a number of finance leadership roles with AstraZeneca, most recently as the Chief Financial Officer of the AstraZeneca/Bristol-Myers Squibb US Diabetes Alliance. Prior to that, he was the Head of Finance for the AstraZeneca Global Medicines Development organization based in Mölndal, Sweden. Mr. Coleman joined AstraZeneca in 2007 as Senior Director Commercial Finance for the US Cardiovascular Business. He joined AstraZeneca from Centocor, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, where he held positions in both the Licenses & Acquisitions and Commercial Finance organizations. Mr. Coleman’s move to Centocor in early 2003 followed 7 years’ experience with the global public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Mr. Coleman is a Certified Public Accountant; he holds a Bachelor of Science degree in accounting from Widener University and an M.B.A. from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University.

Patrick Barry was appointed Executive Vice President and President, Global Commercial Operations, effective April 2020. In this role, he has responsibility for the Company’s global commercial organization across each of Endo’s four reportable business segments, including Branded Pharmaceuticals, Sterile Injectables, Generic Pharmaceuticals and International Pharmaceuticals. He formerly served as Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, U.S. Branded Business since February 2018, after joining Endo in December 2016 as Senior Vice President, U.S. Branded Pharmaceuticals. Prior to joining Endo, Mr. Barry worked at Sanofi S.A. from 1992 until December 2016, holding roles of increasing responsibility in areas such as Sales Leadership, Commercial Operations, Marketing, Launch Planning and Training and Leadership Development. Most recently, he served at Sanofi S.A. as its General Manager and Head of North America General Medicines starting in September 2015 and as Vice President and Head of U.S. Specialty from April 2014 until August 2015. During this time, Mr. Barry oversaw three complex and diverse businesses with responsibility for leading sales and marketing activities for branded and generic products across the U.S. and Canada. He has a diverse therapeutic experience including aesthetics and dermatology, oncology, urology, orthopedics and medical device and surgical experience. He has an M.B.A. from Cornell University, Johnson School of Management and a B.A. in Public Relations and Marketing from McKendree University.

Mark T. Bradley was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective March 2020. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development & Treasurer since June 2017. Mr. Bradley joined Endo in January 2007 as a Finance Director and has held various positions of increasing responsibility since joining the Company. Prior to joining Endo, he spent nearly 7 years as a management consultant, most recently with Deloitte Consulting, providing a broad range of strategic and operational advice and services to senior executives across a number of industries. In addition, Mr. Bradley served as a Finance Director for an industrial products company for approximately 2 years. He spent the first 5 years of his career in public accounting at Ernst & Young LLP. Mr. Bradley is a licensed Certified Public Accountant and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting from Saint Joseph’s University and a Master of Business Administration from The University of Texas at Austin.

Matthew J. Maletta was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, effective May 2015, where he has global responsibility for all legal matters affecting the Company. He was also appointed Company Secretary, effective June 2020. Prior to joining Endo in 2015, Mr. Maletta served as Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Allergan. In this position, he served as an advisor to the Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors and supervised several large transactions, including the $70 billion acquisition of Allergan by Actavis in 2015. Mr. Maletta also played a key role defending Allergan from an unsolicited takeover bid by Valeant Pharmaceuticals and Pershing Square Capital Management in 2014. Mr. Maletta joined Allergan in 2002 and during his tenure, held roles of increased responsibility, including serving as the lead commercial attorney for Allergan’s aesthetics businesses for several years and as Head of Human Resources in 2010. Prior to joining Allergan, Mr. Maletta was in private practice, focusing on general corporate matters, finance, governance, securities and transactions. He holds a B.A. degree in political science from the University of Minnesota, summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa, and a J.D. degree, cum laude, from the University of Minnesota Law School.

James P. Tursi, M.D. was appointed Executive Vice President, Global Research & Development, effective January 2022. In this role, Dr. Tursi is responsible for leading global research & development, medical affairs and regulatory operations. Prior to joining Endo, he held senior leadership roles at Ferring Pharmaceuticals U.S., Antares Pharmaceuticals and Aralez Pharmaceuticals. Prior to Aralez, Dr. Tursi was Chief Medical Officer and Vice President of Clinical R&D at Auxilium Pharmaceuticals until its acquisition by Endo in 2015. Dr. Tursi practiced medicine and surgery for over 10 years and created a medical education company, I Will Pass®, which assisted physicians in the process of board certification. He performed his residency in Gynecology and Obstetrics at the Johns Hopkins Hospital, holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry and Biology from Ursinus College and a Doctor of Medicine degree from the Medical College of Pennsylvania. Dr. Tursi is a member of the Ideal Image and Agile Therapeutics Boards of Directors.

We have employment agreements with each of our executive officers.

17
Available Information

Our internet address is www.endo.com. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our internet address is included in this document as an inactive textual reference only. We make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy reports and all amendments to those reports available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the SEC.

You can access our filings through the SEC’s internet site: www.sec.gov (intended to be an inactive textual reference only).

You may also access copies of the Company’s filings with the Canadian Securities Administrators on SEDAR through their internet site: www.sedar.com (intended to be an inactive textual reference only).

Item 1A. Risk Factors