Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. We make statements in this section that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. For a complete discussion of forward-looking statements, see the section in this Form 10-K entitled “Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information.” Certain risk factors may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the following discussion. For a discussion of such risk factors, see the section in this Form 10-K entitled “Risk Factors.” Dollar amounts in thousands, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated.

OVERVIEW

We are a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (“REIT”), formed to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop self-storage properties (“stores”). We derive substantially all of our revenues from our two segments: storage operations and tenant reinsurance. Primary sources of revenue for our storage operations segment include rents received from tenants under leases at each of our wholly-owned stores. Our operating results depend materially on our ability to lease available self-storage units, to actively manage unit rental rates, and on the ability of our tenants to make required rental payments. Consequently, management spends a significant portion of their time maximizing cash flows from our diverse portfolio of stores. Revenue from our tenant reinsurance segment consists of insurance revenues from the reinsurance of risks relating to the loss of goods stored by tenants in our stores. 

Our stores are generally situated in highly visible locations clustered around large population centers. The clustering of our assets around these population centers enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. To maximize the performance of our stores, we employ industry-leading revenue management systems. Developed by our management team, these systems enable us to analyze, set and adjust rental rates in real time across our portfolio in order to respond to changing market conditions. We believe our systems and processes allow us to more pro-actively manage revenues.

We operate in competitive markets, often where consumers have multiple stores from which to choose. Competition has impacted, and will continue to impact, our store results. We experience seasonal fluctuations in occupancy levels, with occupancy levels generally higher in the summer months due to increased moving activity. We believe that we are able to respond quickly and effectively to changes in local, regional and national economic conditions by adjusting rental rates through the combination of our revenue management team and our industry-leading technology systems. We consider a store to be in the lease-up stage after it has been issued a certificate of occupancy, but before it has achieved stabilization. We consider a store to be stabilized once it has achieved either an 80% occupancy rate for a full year measured as of January 1 of the current year, or has been open for three years prior to January 1 of the current year.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions, including those that impact our most critical accounting policies. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. A summary of significant accounting policies is also provided in the notes to our consolidated financial statements (see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements). Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following are our most critical accounting policies and estimates:

CONSOLIDATION: Arrangements that are not controlled through voting or similar rights are accounted for as variable interest entities (“VIEs”). An enterprise is required to consolidate a VIE if it is the primary beneficiary of the VIE.

Under certain circumstances when we enter into arrangements for the formation of joint ventures, a VIE may be created. The primary factors that require the most judgment in determining whether the joint venture is a VIE are whether the decisions that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance were controlled by the equity holders as a group, and whether the joint venture has sufficient equity to finance its activities without additional subordinated support.

If the joint venture is determined to be a VIE, we perform a qualitative analysis, including considering which party, if any, has the power to direct the activities most significant to the economic performance of each VIE and whether that party has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to the VIE. If we are determined to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE, the assets, liabilities and operations of the VIE are consolidated within 

19

our financial statements. Otherwise, our investment is generally accounted for under the equity method. Our ability to correctly assess the influence or control over an entity affects the presentation of the investment in our consolidated financial statements.

As of December 31, 2021 we had one consolidated VIE consisting of four stores. As of December 31, 2020 we had no consolidated VIEs. 

REAL ESTATE ASSETS: We account for the acquisition of stores, including by merger and other acquisitions of real estate, in accordance with ASC 805-10, "Business Combinations." We use our judgment to determine if assets acquired meet the definition of a business or if the acquisition should be considered an asset acquisition. We must make significant assumptions and estimates in determining the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired and consideration transferred. These fair value estimates are sensitive to: price of land per square foot and current replacement cost estimates, including adjustments for the age, class, height, square footage, condition, location, and turnkey factor. These assumptions and estimates require judgment, and therefore others could come to materially different conclusions as to the estimated fair values, which could result in differences in depreciation and amortization expense, gains and losses on the sale of real estate assets, and real estate and intangible asset values. 

EVALUATION OF ASSET IMPAIRMENT: Long lived assets held for use are evaluated for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. We review each store at least annually to determine if any such events or circumstances have occurred or exist. We focus on stores where occupancy and/or rental income have decreased by a significant amount. For these stores, we determine whether the decrease is temporary or permanent and whether the store will likely recover the lost occupancy and/or revenue in the short term. In addition, we review stores in the lease-up stage and compare actual operating results to original projections. We may not have identified all material facts and circumstances that affect impairment of our stores. No material impairments were recorded in the year ended December 31, 2021.

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES: We hold a number of derivative instruments which we use to hedge our exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, mainly related to our interest rates on variable interest debt. We do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. We assess our derivatives both at inception, and on an ongoing quarterly basis, for whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are effective. The rules and interpretations relating to the accounting for derivatives are complex. Failure to apply this guidance correctly may require us to recognize all changes in fair value of the hedged derivative in earnings, which may materially impact our results. 

INCOME TAXES: We have elected to be treated as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, among other things, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders and meet certain tests regarding the nature of our income and assets. As a REIT, we are not subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to that portion of our income which meets certain criteria and is distributed annually to our stockholders. We plan to continue to operate so that we meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. Many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT and for which applicable statutory relief provisions did not apply, we would be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on all of our taxable income for at least that year and the ensuing four years. We could also be subject to penalties and interest, and our net income may be materially different from the amounts reported in our financial statements.

We have elected to treat certain corporate subsidiaries, including Extra Space Management, Inc., as a TRS. In general, a TRS may perform additional services for tenants and generally may engage in any real estate or non-real estate related business. A TRS is subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax and may also be subject to state and local income taxes. Interest and penalties relating to uncertain tax positions will be recognized in income tax expense when incurred. If tax authorities determine that amounts paid by any of our TRSs to us are not reasonable compared to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a penalty tax on the excess payments. 

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS: For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements affecting our business, see Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data–Recently Issued Accounting Standards.”

20

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2021 to the Year Ended December 31, 2020 

Overview

Results for the year ended December 31, 2021 included the operations of 1,268 stores (981 wholly-owned, four in consolidated joint ventures, and 283 in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method) compared to the results for the year ended December 31, 2020, which included the operations of 1,197 stores (944 wholly-owned, six in a consolidated joint venture, and 247 in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method). Material or unusual changes in the results of our operations are discussed below.

Revenues

The following table presents information on revenues earned for the years indicated:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Property Rental—The increase in property rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily the result of an increase of $151,217 at our stabilized stores related to high occupancy and increased rents to new and existing customers. Property rental revenue also increased by $40,792 associated with acquisitions completed in 2021 and 2020. We acquired 74 stores during the year ended December 31, 2021 and we acquired 23 stores during the year ended December 31, 2020. Property rental revenue also increased by $5,193 during the year ended December 31, 2021 as a result of increases in occupancy at our lease-up stores. These increases were offset by approximately $15,460 related to the sale of 16 stores into a new joint venture and 16 stores to a third party during 2021.

Tenant Reinsurance—The increase in tenant reinsurance revenues was due primarily to an increase in the number of stores operated and the higher average occupancy across the portfolio. We operated 2,096 stores at December 31, 2021, compared to 1,921 stores at December 31, 2020. 

Management Fees and Other Income—Management fees and other income represent the fees collected for our management of stores owned by third parties and unconsolidated joint ventures and other transaction fee income. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily due to an increase in the number of stores managed. As of December 31, 2021, we managed 1,115 stores for third parties and joint ventures compared to 977 stores as of December 31, 2020.

21

Expenses

The following table presents information on expenses for the years indicated:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Property Operations—The increase in property operations expense consists primarily of an increase of $13,440 related to acquisitions completed in 2021 and 2020. We acquired 74 stores during the year ended December 31, 2021 and acquired 23 stores during the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in expense of $(4,755) related to property sales. 

Tenant Reinsurance—Tenant reinsurance expense represents the costs that are incurred to provide tenant reinsurance. The increase in tenant reinsurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 was due primarily to the increase in total number of stores operated compared to the prior year and major storm events that occurred causing an increase in claim payouts. We operated 2,096 stores at December 31, 2021, compared to 1,921 stores at December 31, 2020. 

General and Administrative—General and administrative expenses primarily include all expenses not directly related to our stores, including corporate payroll, travel and professional fees. These expenses are recognized as incurred. During 2021, we experienced higher than average turnover and extended times to fill. Additionally, we experienced wage pressure which led to increases in wages of approximately 10% nationwide. These trends will directly increase general & administrative expenses in 2022. No other material trends in specific travel or other expenses were observed. 

Depreciation and Amortization—Depreciation and amortization expense increased as a result of the acquisition of new stores. We acquired 74 stores during the year ended December 31, 2021, and acquired 23 stores during the year ended December 31, 2020.

Other Income and Expenses

The following table presents information on other revenues and expenses for the years indicated:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gain on Real Estate Transactions — During the first quarter of 2021, we sold 16 stores to a newly established unconsolidated joint venture for a total sales price of $168,885 resulting in a gain of $63,477. Additionally, we sold 16 stores during the fourth quarter of 2021 to a third party for a total sales price of $204,500 resulting in a gain of $73,854. 

22

Interest Expense—The decrease in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily the result of a lower average interest rate when compared to the same period in the prior year. Information on the total face value of debt and the average interest rate for each quarter during the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 is set forth in the following table:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Non-cash Interest Expense Related to Amortization of Discount on Equity Component of Exchangeable Senior Notes—Represents the amortization of the discounts related to the equity components of the exchangeable senior notes issued by our Operating Partnership. The exchangeable senior notes had an effective interest rate of 4.0% relative to the carrying amount of the liability. The notes were paid in full in November 2020.

Interest Income—Interest income represents amounts earned on cash and cash equivalents deposited with financial institutions, interest earned on bridge loans and debt securities and income earned on notes receivable from common and preferred Operating Partnership unit holders. In late 2018 we began to provide bridge financing on completed properties owned by third parties that we manage. The total principal balance of bridge loans receivable as of December 31, 2021 was $279,042, compared to $187,368 as of December 31, 2020. We also purchased a senior mezzanine note receivable with a principal amount of $103,000 in July 2020. The increase in interest income during the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily the result of interest earned on these loans as well as interest earned from our investment in preferred stock of Jernigan Capital, Inc. ("JCAP"), in connection with the acquisition of JCAP by affiliates of NexPoint Advisors, L.P., which was purchased in November 2020 for $300,000. 

Equity in Earnings and Dividend Income from Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities—Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate ventures represents the income earned through our ownership interests in unconsolidated real estate ventures. In joint ventures, we and our joint venture partners generally receive a preferred return on our invested capital. To the extent that cash or profits in excess of these preferred returns are generated, we receive a higher percentage of the excess cash or profits, as applicable. Dividend income represents dividends from our investment in convertible preferred stock of SmartStop, which was purchased in October 2019 for $150,000 with another $50,000 invested in October 2020. The increase in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2021 is related in part to the dividend income from the secondary investment of SmartStop preferred stock. Additionally the increases related to the higher income at our joint ventures are due to store performance and the acquisition of 45 stores with new and existing joint venture partners. These increases were offset by the sale of our equity interest in 22 stores.

Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Real Estate Ventures—Gain on Sale of Real Estate Assets and Purchase of Joint Venture Partner's Interest—In June 2021, we sold our interest in two unconsolidated single store joint ventures to our joint ventures partner. We received proceeds of $1,888 in cash and recorded a gain of $525. Also, as of June 2021, the WICNN JV LLC and GFN JV LLC joint ventures sold all 17 of the stores owned by the joint ventures to a third party. Subsequent to the sales, these joint ventures were dissolved. As a result of these transactions, we recorded a gain of $5,739. 

Income Tax Expense—For the year ended December 31, 2021, the increase in income tax expense was the result of an increase in income earned by our TRS when compared to the same period in the prior year.

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2020 to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 

The results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2020 compared to December 31, 2019 was included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 on page 19, under Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which was filed with the SEC on February 26, 2021.

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS

Funds from operations ("FFO") provides relevant and meaningful information about our operating performance that is necessary, along with net income and cash flows, for an understanding of our operating results. We believe FFO is a meaningful disclosure as a supplement to net earnings. Net earnings assume that the values of real estate assets diminish 

23

predictably over time as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. The values of real estate assets fluctuate due to market conditions and we believe FFO more accurately reflects the value of our real estate assets. FFO is defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, Inc. (“NAREIT”) as net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), excluding gains or losses on sales of operating stores and impairment write-downs of depreciable real estate assets, plus real estate related depreciation and amortization and after adjustments to record unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures on the same basis. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO should be considered along with the reported net income and cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in the consolidated financial statements. FFO should not be considered a replacement of net income computed in accordance with GAAP.

The computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other REITs or real estate companies that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance, as an alternative to net cash flow from operating activities as a measure of our liquidity, or as an indicator of our ability to make cash distributions.

The following table presents the calculation of FFO for the periods indicated:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SAME-STORE RESULTS

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2021 to the Year Ended December 31, 2020 

Our same-store pool for the periods presented consists of 842 stores that are wholly-owned and operated and that were stabilized by the first day of the earliest calendar year presented. We consider a store to be stabilized once it has been open for three years or has sustained average square foot occupancy of 80% or more for one calendar year. We believe that by providing same-store results from a stabilized pool of stores, with accompanying operating metrics including, but not limited to: occupancy, rental revenue growth, operating expense growth, net operating income growth, etc., stockholders and potential investors are able to evaluate operating performance without the effects of non-stabilized occupancy levels, rent levels, expense levels, acquisitions or completed developments. Same-store results should not be used as a basis for future same-store performance or for the performance of our stores as a whole. The following table presents operating data for our same-store portfolio: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

24

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Same-store revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased compared to the prior year, due to higher average occupancy, higher average rates to new and existing customers and higher late fees partially offset by higher discounts. Expenses were lower for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year, primarily due to decreases in payroll and marketing expense, partially offset by increases in property taxes, credit card processing fees, repairs and maintenance expense and insurance expense.

The following table presents a reconciliation of same-store net operating income to net income as presented on our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods indicated:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2020 to the Year Ended December 31, 2019

The same-store results for the years ended December 31, 2020 compared to December 31, 2019 was included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 on page 25, under Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which was filed with the SEC on February 26, 2021.

25

CASH FLOWS

Cash flows from operating activities increased as expected due to our continued growth in revenues and through the increase in the number of properties we own and operate. Cash flows used in investing activities relate primarily to our acquisitions and development of new stores, sales of stores, investments in unconsolidated real estate entities and notes receivable from bridge loans, and fluctuate depending on our actions in those areas. Cash flows from financing activities depend primarily on our debt and equity financing activities. A summary of cash flows along with significant components are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We believe that cash flows generated by operations, along with our existing cash and cash equivalents, the availability of funds under our existing lines of credit, and our access to capital markets will be sufficient to meet all of our reasonably anticipated cash needs during the next twelve months. These cash needs include operating expenses, monthly debt service payments, recurring capital expenditures, acquisitions, funding for new notes receivable for bridge loans, building redevelopments and expansions, distributions to unit holders and dividends to stockholders necessary to maintain our REIT qualification.

We expect to generate positive cash flow from operations and we consider projected cash flows in our sources and uses of cash. These cash flows are principally derived from rents paid by our tenants. A significant deterioration in projected cash flows from operations could cause us to increase our reliance on available funds under our existing lines of credit, curtail planned capital expenditures, or seek other additional sources of financing.

26

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Financing Strategy

We will continue to employ leverage in our capital structure in amounts reviewed from time to time by our board of directors. Although our board of directors has not adopted a policy which limits the total amount of indebtedness that we may incur, we will consider a number of factors in evaluating our level of indebtedness from time to time, as well as the amount of such indebtedness that will be either fixed or variable rate. In making financing decisions, we will consider factors including but not limited to:

•the interest rate of the proposed financing;

•the extent to which the financing impacts flexibility in managing our stores;

•prepayment penalties and restrictions on refinancing;

•the purchase price of stores acquired with debt financing;

•long-term objectives with respect to the financing;

•target investment returns;

•the ability of particular stores, and our company as a whole, to generate cash flow sufficient to cover expected debt service payments;

•overall level of consolidated indebtedness;

•timing of debt maturities;

•provisions that require recourse and cross-collateralization; and

•corporate credit ratios including fixed charge coverage ratio and max secured/unsecured indebtedness.

Our indebtedness may be recourse, non-recourse, cross-collateralized, cross-defaulted, secured or unsecured. In addition, we may invest in stores subject to existing loans collateralized by mortgages or similar liens, or may refinance stores acquired on a leveraged basis. We may use the proceeds from any borrowings to refinance existing indebtedness, to refinance investments, including the redevelopment of existing stores, for general working capital or to purchase additional interests in partnerships or joint ventures or for other purposes when we believe it is advisable.

As of December 31, 2021, we had $71,126 available in cash and cash equivalents. Our cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in our operating accounts. During 2021 and 2020, we experienced no loss or lack of access to our cash or cash equivalents; however, there can be no assurance that access to our cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets.

As of December 31, 2021, we had $5,984,113 face value of debt, resulting in a debt to total enterprise value ratio of 15.6%. As of December 31, 2020, we had $5,767,771 face value of debt, resulting in a debt to total enterprise value ratio of 27.5%. As of December 31, 2021, the ratio of total fixed-rate debt and other instruments to total debt was 75.3% (including $1,983,145 on which we have interest rate swaps that have been included as fixed-rate debt). As of December 31, 2020, the ratio of total fixed-rate debt and other instruments to total debt was 63.1% (including $2,091,269 on which we have interest rate swaps that have been included as fixed-rate debt). The weighted average interest rate of total debt at December 31, 2021 and 2020 was 2.6% and 2.7%, respectively.

In January 2021, we received a Baa2 rating from Moody's Investors Service and in July 2019, we obtained a BBB/Stable rating from S&P. We intend to manage our balance sheet to preserve such ratings. Certain of our real estate assets are pledged as collateral for our debt. We have a total of 752 unencumbered stores as defined by our public bonds. Our unencumbered asset value is calculated as $13,498,591 and our total asset value is calculated as $18,072,262 according to the calculations as defined by our public bonds. We are subject to certain restrictive covenants relating to our outstanding debt. We were in compliance with all financial covenants at December 31, 2021.

We expect to fund our short-term liquidity requirements, including operating expenses, recurring capital expenditures, dividends to stockholders, distributions to holders of Operating Partnership units and interest on our outstanding indebtedness, out of our operating cash flow, cash on hand and borrowings under our revolving lines of credit. In addition, we are pursuing additional sources of financing based on anticipated funding needs.

Our liquidity needs consist primarily of operating expenses, monthly debt service payments, recurring capital expenditures, distributions to unit holders and dividends to stockholders necessary to maintain our REIT qualification. We may from time to time seek to repurchase our outstanding debt, shares of common stock or other securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. In addition, we evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of strategic acquisitions and other relationships, which may require us to raise additional funds. We may also use 

27

Operating Partnership units as currency to fund acquisitions from self-storage owners who desire tax-deferral in their exiting transactions.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

As of December 31, 2021, the weighted average interest rate for all fixed rate debt was 3.1%, and the weighted average interest rate on all variable rate debt was 1.3%.

For more information on our contractual obligations related to real estate acquisitions, refer to our commitments and contingencies footnote in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

SEASONALITY

The self-storage business has been subject to seasonal fluctuations. A greater portion of revenues and profits is typically realized from May through September. Historically, our highest level of occupancy has been at the end of July, while our lowest level of occupancy has been in late February and early March. Results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk