PART I

Item 1. Business

Company Overview

We are a leading American solar technology company and global provider of PV solar energy solutions. Developed at our R&D labs in California and Ohio, we manufacture and sell PV solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor technology that provide a high-performance, lower-carbon alternative to conventional crystalline silicon PV solar modules. From raw material sourcing through end-of-life module recycling, we are committed to reducing the environmental impacts and enhancing the social and economic benefits of our products across their life cycle. We are the world’s largest thin film PV solar module manufacturer and the largest PV solar module manufacturer in the Western Hemisphere.

In addressing the overall global demand for electricity, our modules provide energy at a lower levelized cost of electricity (“LCOE”), meaning the net present value of a system’s total life cycle costs divided by the quantity of energy that is expected to be produced over the system’s life, when compared to traditional forms of energy generation. With over $1 billion in cumulative R&D investments in the last 10 years alone, we have a demonstrated history of innovation and continuous improvement. We believe our strategies and points of differentiation provide the foundation for our competitive position and enable us to remain one of the preferred providers of PV solar modules.

Business Strategy

Advanced Module Technology

Our current module semiconductor structure is a single-junction polycrystalline thin film that uses CdTe as the absorption layer. CdTe has absorption properties that are well matched to the solar spectrum and can deliver competitive wattage using approximately 2% of the amount of semiconductor material used to manufacture conventional crystalline silicon modules. In terms of performance, in many climates our solar modules provide certain energy production advantages relative to competing crystalline silicon modules. For example, our CdTe solar technology provides:

•a superior temperature coefficient, which results in stronger system performance in typical high insolation climates as the majority of a system’s generation, on average, occurs when module temperatures are well above 25°C (standard test conditions);

•a superior spectral response in humid environments where atmospheric moisture alters the solar spectrum relative to standard test conditions;

•a better partial shading response than competing crystalline silicon technologies, which may experience significantly lower energy generation than CdTe solar technologies when partial shading occurs; and

•an immunity to cell cracking and its resulting power output loss, a common failure often observed in crystalline silicon modules caused by poor manufacturing, handling, weather, or other conditions.

In addition to these technological advantages, we also warrant that our PV solar modules will produce at least 98% of their labeled power output rating during the first year, with the warranty coverage reducing by a degradation factor between 0.3% and 0.5%, depending on the module series, every year thereafter throughout the limited power output warranty period of up to 30 years. Following the implementation of our Copper Replacement (“CuRe”) program, which replaces copper with certain other elements that are expected to enhance module performance, we expect the warranted degradation of our modules to decline to 0.2% per year in the near term. As a result of these and other factors, our PV solar modules can produce more annual energy in real world operating conditions than conventional crystalline silicon modules with the same nameplate capacity. For more information about the risks associated with our CuRe program, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors – Our failure to further refine our technology and 

3
develop and introduce improved PV products, including as a result of delays in implementing planned advancements, could render our solar modules uncompetitive and reduce our net sales, profitability, and/or market share.”

Manufacturing Process

Our modules combine our leading-edge CdTe technology with the manufacturing excellence and quality control that comes from being the world’s most experienced producer of thin film PV solar modules. With more than 40 GWDC of modules sold worldwide, we have a demonstrated history of manufacturing success and innovation. Our global manufacturing footprint includes facilities in the United States, Malaysia, and Vietnam, and we are expanding our global presence by constructing our first manufacturing facility in India, which is expected to commence operations in the second half of 2023. Our modules are manufactured in a high-throughput, automated environment that integrates all manufacturing steps into a continuous flow line. Such process eliminates the multiple supply chain operators and resource-intensive batch processing steps that are used to produce crystalline silicon modules, which typically occur over several days and across multiple factories. At the outset of our module production, a sheet of glass enters the production line and in a matter of hours is transformed into a completed module ready for shipment.

This proprietary production process includes the following three stages: (i) the deposition stage, (ii) the cell definition and treatment stage, and (iii) the assembly and test stage. In the deposition stage, panels of transparent oxide-coated glass are robotically loaded onto the production line where they are cleaned, laser-mark identified with a serial number, heated, and coated with thin layers of CdTe and other semiconductor materials using our vapor transport deposition technology, after which the semiconductor-coated plates are cooled rapidly to increase glass strength. In the cell definition and treatment stage, we use high-speed lasers to transform the large continuous semiconductor coating on the glass plate into a series of interconnected cells that deliver the desired current and voltage output. In this stage, we also treat the semiconductor film using certain chemistries and processes to improve the device’s performance and apply a metal sputtered back contact. In the assembly and test stage, we apply busbars, inter-layer material, and a rear glass cover sheet that is laminated to encapsulate the device. We then apply anti-reflective coating material to the substrate glass to further improve the module’s performance by increasing its ability to absorb sunlight. Finally, junction boxes, termination wires, and a frame are applied to complete the module assembly.

We maintain a robust quality and reliability assurance program that monitors critical process parameters and measures product performance to ensure that industry and more stringent internal standards are met. We also conduct acceptance testing for electrical leakage, visual quality, and power measurement on a solar simulator prior to preparing a module for shipment. Our quality and reliability tests complement production surveillance with an ongoing monitoring program, subjecting production modules to accelerated life stress testing to help ensure ongoing conformance to requirements of the International Electrotechnical Commission and Underwriters Laboratories Inc. These programs and tests help assure delivery of power and performance in the field with a high level of product quality and reliability.

Research and Development

Our R&D model differentiates us from much of our competition due to its vertical integration, from advanced research to product development, manufacturing, and applications. We continue to devote substantial resources to our R&D efforts, which generally focus on continually improving the wattage and energy yield of our solar modules. We also have R&D programs to improve module durability and manufacturing efficiencies, including throughput, volume ramp, and material cost reduction. Based on publicly available information, we are one of the leaders in R&D investment among PV solar module manufacturers, maintaining a rate of innovation that enables continual wattage gains and cost reductions.

4
In the course of our R&D activities, we explore various technologies in our efforts to sustain competitive differentiation in our modules. We primarily conduct our R&D activities and qualify process and product improvements for full production at our Perrysburg, Ohio plant and systematically propagate them to our other facilities. We believe that our systematic approach to technology change management enables continuous improvements and ensures uniform adoption across our production lines. In addition, our production lines are replicas or near replicas of each other and, as a result, a process or production improvement on one line can be rapidly and reliably deployed to other production lines.

We regularly produce research cells in our laboratories, some of which are tested for performance and certified by independent labs, such as the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. Cell efficiency measures the proportion of light converted to electricity in a single solar cell at standard test conditions. Our research cells are produced using laboratory equipment and methods and are not intended to be representative of our manufacturing capability. Our module conversion efficiency has improved on average more than half a percent every year for the last ten years. We currently hold two world records for CdTe PV cell efficiency, achieving an independently certified research cell efficiency of 22.1% and a module aperture area efficiency of 19.7%. We believe that our record cells demonstrate a potential mid-term module efficiency entitlement of 25% in a multi-junction application, which is achievable using our commercial-scale manufacturing equipment.

Sustainability

We are committed to reducing our carbon footprint and enhancing the social and economic benefits of our products. Our thin film modules are manufactured through an integrated process that uses less energy, water, and semiconductor material than conventional crystalline silicon modules. Accordingly, our modules provide an ecologically leading solution to climate change, energy security, and water scarcity. On a lifecycle basis, our thin film module technology has the fastest energy payback time, smallest carbon footprint, and lowest water use of any competing PV solar technology.

The energy payback time of our module technology, which is the amount of time a module must operate to recover the energy required to produce it, is facilitated by our proprietary production process. Our module energy payback time is approximately four months, which represents a 90-fold energy return on investment over a theoretical 30-year system lifetime and an abundant net energy gain to the electricity grid. Furthermore, our modules have a carbon footprint that is 2.5 times lower and a water footprint that is three times lower than conventional crystalline silicon modules, measured on a lifecycle basis that accounts for the energy and water used for the raw materials, throughout our manufacturing process, and during end-of-life module recycling. In addition, our industry-leading PV solar module recycling process further enhances our sustainability advantage by recovering approximately 90% of the glass for reuse in new glass products and over 90% of the semiconductor material for reuse in new modules. We are the only PV solar module manufacturer with global in-house recycling capabilities.

Our Series 6TM (“Series 6”) and Series 6 PlusTM (“Series 6 Plus”) modules are the world’s first and only PV products to be included in the Electronic Products Environmental Assessment Tool (“EPEAT”) Registry’s Photovoltaic and Inverters product category. The EPEAT Registry enables the identification of credible sustainable electronic products from a broad range of manufacturers based on several factors, including the product’s raw materials, manufacturing energy, water use, product packaging, end-of-life recycling, and corporate responsibility. We have also committed to the RE100 campaign, a collaborative, global initiative of influential businesses committed to 100% renewable electricity, in which we plan to utilize renewable sources to power our manufacturing operations by 2028. We expect this commitment to further reduce the carbon footprint of our modules by 40%, further enabling our customers to achieve their sustainability objectives.

5
Financial Stability

In addition to our sustainability commitments, we are also committed to creating long-term shareholder value through a decision-making framework that delivers a balance of growth, profitability, and liquidity. This framework has enabled us to fund our module manufacturing and capacity expansion initiatives primarily using cash flows generated by our operations despite substantial downward pressure on the price of solar modules due to competition, demand fluctuations, and significant overcapacity in the industry. Our financial stability provides strategic optionality as we evaluate how to invest in our business and generate returns for our shareholders. Our financial stability also enables us to offer meaningful warranties, which provide us with a competitive advantage relative to many of our peers in the solar industry. Furthermore, we expect our financial discipline and ability to manage operating costs to enhance our profitability as we continue to scale our business.

Market Overview

Solar energy is one of the fastest growing forms of renewable energy with numerous economic and environmental benefits that make it an attractive complement to and/or substitute for traditional forms of energy generation. In recent years, the price of PV solar power systems, and accordingly the cost of producing electricity from such systems, has dropped to levels that are competitive with or below the wholesale price of electricity in many markets. This rapid price decline has opened new possibilities to develop systems in many locations with limited or no financial incentives. Other technological developments in the industry, such as the advancement of energy storage capabilities, have further enhanced the prospects of solar energy as an alternative to traditional forms of energy generation. Furthermore, the fact that a PV solar power system requires no fuel provides a unique and valuable hedging benefit to owners of such systems relative to other generation assets. Once installed, PV solar power systems can function for over 35 years with relatively less maintenance or oversight compared to many other forms of generation. In addition to these economic benefits, solar energy has substantial environmental benefits. For example, PV solar power systems generate no greenhouse gas or other emissions and use minimal amounts of water compared to traditional energy generation assets. Worldwide solar markets continue to develop, aided by the above factors as well as demand elasticity resulting from declining industry average selling prices, both at the module and system level, which have made solar power one of the most economically attractive sources of energy.

Although module average selling prices in many global markets have declined for several years, recent module spot pricing has increased, in part, due to elevated commodity and freight costs. For example, the price of polysilicon has significantly increased in recent months due to a coal shortage in China, which resulted in higher energy prices and the Chinese government mandating power restrictions that led to curtailments of silicon metal production. Given the majority of global polysilicon capacity is located in China, such higher energy prices and reduced operating capacities have adversely affected the supply of polysilicon, contributing to an increase in polysilicon pricing. In response to such supply shortage, certain other Chinese-based producers of polysilicon are in the process of expanding their production capacity, which is expected to reduce the price of polysilicon in future periods. Accordingly, while the duration of this elevated period of spot pricing is uncertain, module average selling prices in global markets are expected to decline in the long-term. In the aggregate, we believe manufacturers of solar cells and modules, particularly those in China, have significant installed production capacity, relative to global demand, and the ability for additional capacity expansion. As a result, we believe the solar industry may experience periods of structural imbalance between supply and demand (i.e., where production capacity exceeds global demand), and that excess capacity will put pressure on pricing. Additionally, intense competition at the system level may result in an environment in which pricing falls rapidly, thereby potentially increasing demand for solar energy solutions but constraining the ability for project developers and module manufacturers to sustain meaningful and consistent profitability. In light of such market realities, we continue to focus on our strategies and points of differentiation, which include our advanced module technology, our manufacturing process, our research and development capabilities, the sustainability advantage of our modules, and our financial stability.

6
Global Markets

We have established and continue to develop a global business presence. Energy markets are, by their nature, localized, with different drivers and market forces impacting electricity generation and demand in a particular region or for a particular application. Accordingly, our business is evolving worldwide and is shaped by the varying ways in which our modules can provide compelling and economically viable solutions to energy needs in various markets. We are currently focusing on markets, including those listed below, in which our CdTe solar modules provide certain advantages over conventional crystalline silicon solar modules, including high insolation climates in which our modules provide a superior temperature coefficient, humid environments in which our modules provide a superior spectral response, and markets that favor the superior sustainability profile of our PV solar technology. To the extent our production capacity expands in future periods, we have the potential to extend our focus to additional geographic markets.

United States. Multiple markets within the United States, which accounted for 84% of our 2021 net sales, exemplify favorable characteristics for a solar market, including (i) sizeable electricity demand, particularly around growing population centers and industrial areas; (ii) strong demand for renewable energy generation; and (iii) abundant solar resources. In those areas and applications in which these factors are more pronounced, our PV solar modules compete favorably on an economic basis with traditional forms of energy generation. The market penetration of PV solar is also impacted by certain federal and state support programs, including the federal investment tax credit, as described below under “Support Programs.” As a result of such market opportunities, we recently announced plans to expand our manufacturing capacity by 3.3 GWDC by constructing our third U.S. manufacturing facility, which is expected to commence operations in the first half of 2023. Upon completion of this facility, which commenced construction in late 2021, we expect our U.S. manufacturing capacity to be approximately 6 GWDC.

India. India continues to represent one of the largest and fastest growing markets for PV solar energy with an installed generation capacity of approximately 45 GWAC, approximately 45 GWAC of projects under various stages of construction, and over 20 GWAC of new projects being contracted under active procurement programs. In addition, the government has established aggressive renewable energy targets, which include increasing the country’s overall renewable energy capacity to 500 GWAC by 2030 and establishing a net-zero carbon emissions target by 2070. Based on these targets, it is projected that the solar energy generation capacity will be 300 GWAC by 2030. The government has also announced a series of policy and regulatory measures to incentivize domestic manufacturing of PV solar modules, as described below under “Support Programs.” These targets, policies, and regulatory measures are expected to help create significant and sustained demand for PV solar energy. In addition to these factors, our CdTe solar technology is well suited for the India market given its hot and humid climate conditions. As a result of such market opportunities, we recently announced plans to expand our manufacturing capacity by an additional 3.3 GWDC by constructing our first manufacturing facility in India, which is expected to commence operations in the second half of 2023. Such expansion builds upon our existing presence of approximately 2 GWDC of modules sold in India.

Europe. Most markets across Europe reflect strong demand for PV solar energy due to its ability to compete economically with more traditional forms of energy generation. During 2021, European Union (“EU”) member states added a combined 26 GWDC of solar capacity, representing the largest annual solar deployment in the region in the last 10 years. Such expansion, which was primarily driven by solar capacity additions in Germany, Spain, the Netherlands, Poland, and France, brings the region’s installed generation capacity to approximately 165 GWDC. We continue to pursue module sales activities in many of the countries mentioned above.

Japan. Japan’s electricity markets have various characteristics that make them attractive for PV solar energy investments. In particular, Japan has few domestic fossil fuel resources and relies heavily on fossil fuel imports. Following the Fukushima earthquake in 2011, the country introduced certain initiatives to limit its reliance on nuclear power. Accordingly, the Japanese government announced a long-term goal of dramatically increasing installed solar power capacity and provided various incentives for solar power installations. In recent years, we have partnered with local companies to develop, construct, sell, and operate various PV solar power systems, which are 

7
expected to mitigate Japan’s dependence on fossil fuel imports and nuclear power. In 2021, we completed the sale of multiple projects in Japan totaling 51 MWAC. In late 2021, we received an offer to purchase our project development and O&M services businesses in Japan and determined it was in the best interest of our stockholders to pursue this transaction. As a result, we expect to enter into an agreement for the sale of these businesses in the near term. The completion of the transaction is contingent on the completion of final contract negotiations and the achievement of certain closing conditions. Assuming satisfaction of such items, we expect the sale to be completed in the first half of 2022. Following the sale of these businesses, we plan to continue pursuing module sales opportunities in Japan.

Support Programs

Although we compete in many markets that do not require solar-specific government subsidies or support programs, our net sales and profits remain subject, in the near term, to variability based on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives, such as quotas, renewable portfolio standards, and tendering systems. In addition to these support programs, financial incentives for PV solar energy may include tax and production incentives. Additionally, many governments have proposed or implemented policies or support programs intended to stimulate their respective economies. Such support programs may include additional incentives for renewable energy projects, including PV solar power systems, over several years. Although we expect to become less impacted by and less dependent on these forms of government support over time, such programs continue to influence the demand for PV solar energy around the world.

In the United States, tax incentive programs exist at both the federal and state levels and can take the form of investment and production tax credits, accelerated depreciation, and sales and property tax exemptions and abatements. At the federal level, investment tax credits for business and residential solar systems have gone through several cycles of enactment and expiration since the 1980s. The current federal energy investment tax credit (“ITC”) for both residential and commercial solar installations requires projects to have commenced construction by a certain date, which may be achieved by certain qualifying procurement activities. In 2020, the U.S. Congress extended the 26% ITC through 2022 as part of its COVID-19 relief efforts. Such credit is currently scheduled to step down to 22% for projects that commence construction in 2023 and 10% for projects that commence construction thereafter. During 2021, legislation was introduced in the U.S. Congress to incentivize domestic solar manufacturing and accelerate the transition to clean energy by providing tax credits for U.S. solar manufacturers and project developers. Among other things, such proposed legislation extends the ITC up to 40% for 10 years for solar projects that satisfy certain domestic content, labor, and wage requirements; introduces certain refundable tax credits for solar module components manufactured in the U.S.; revives certain tax credits for capital investments in the manufacturing of solar module components; and expands the scope of production tax credits for energy storage projects. At this time, it is unclear whether and to what extent such measures will be enacted into law. The ITC has been an important economic driver of solar installations and qualifying procurement activities in the United States, and its extension is expected to contribute to greater medium-term demand. The positive impact of the ITC depends to a large degree on the availability of tax equity for project financing, and any significant reduction in the availability of tax equity in the future could make it more difficult to develop and construct projects requiring financing.

The majority of states in the United States have also enacted legislation adopting Renewable Portfolio Standard (“RPS”) mechanisms. Under an RPS, regulated utilities and other load serving entities are required to procure a specified percentage of their total retail electricity sales to end-user customers from eligible renewable resources, such as solar energy generation facilities, by a specified date. For example, California’s RPS program, which is one of the most significant in the United States in terms of the volume of renewable electricity required to meet its RPS mandate, currently requires utilities and other obligated load serving entities to procure 60% of their total retail electricity demand from eligible renewable resources by 2030 and 100% of such electricity demand from carbon-free resources by 2045. Some programs may further require that a specified portion of the total percentage of renewable energy must come from solar generation facilities or other technologies. RPS mechanisms and other legislation vary significantly from state to state, particularly with respect to the percentage of renewable energy required to achieve the state’s RPS, the definition of eligible renewable energy resources, and the extent to which renewable energy credits qualify for RPS compliance.

8
In India, incentives at both the federal and state levels have contributed to growth in domestic PV solar module manufacturing. For example, in 2019 the government announced a concessional corporate income tax rate of 15% for new manufacturing investments, and in early 2021 the government approved a Production Linked Incentive (“PLI”) scheme of INR 45 billion ($0.6 billion) for PV solar cells and modules manufactured in India. In early 2022, the government announced an expansion to the PLI scheme to INR 195 billion ($2.6 billion). Under the PLI scheme, manufacturers are selected through a competitive bid process and receive the incentive over a five-year period following the commissioning of their manufacturing facilities. Such incentives may be increased for higher efficiency modules and raw materials sourced from the domestic market. Additionally, the Indian government has also announced import duty tariffs of 40% on solar modules and 25% on solar cells beginning in April 2022; a regulation mandating that any solar project with federal utility, state utility, or commercial and industrial off-takers that interconnects through government owned transmission lines only use solar modules from an approved list of module manufacturers; and a requirement that all federal procurement of solar modules be only from cells and modules produced domestically.

In Europe, renewable energy targets, in conjunction with tenders for utility-scale PV solar and other support measures, have contributed to growth in PV solar markets. Renewable energy targets prescribe how much energy consumption must come from renewable sources, while incentive policies and competitive tender policies are intended to support new supply development by providing certainty to investors. Various EU directives on renewable energy have set targets for all EU member states in support of the goal of a 55% share of energy from renewable sources in the EU by 2030. In addition to these targets, certain markets in Europe, such as France, have adopted regulations for public tenders of renewable energy to prioritize PV solar power systems that utilize solar modules produced in low-carbon manufacturing processes. Such regulations require developers to provide information about the carbon footprint of PV solar modules used in their utility-scale projects and precludes the use of module technology that does not meet certain minimum carbon footprint thresholds.

Various proposed and contemplated environmental and tax policies may create regulatory uncertainty in the renewable energy sector, including the solar energy sector, and may lead to a reduction or removal of various clean energy programs and initiatives designed to curtail climate change. For more information about the risks associated with these potential government actions, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors – The reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives, tax incentives, renewable energy targets, and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications, or other public policies, such as tariffs or other trade remedies imposed on solar cells and modules, could negatively impact demand and/or price levels for our solar modules and limit our growth or lead to a reduction in our net sales or increase our costs, thereby adversely impacting our operating results.”

Business Segments

Modules Business

Our primary segment is our modules business, which involves the design, manufacture, and sale of CdTe solar modules, which convert sunlight into electricity. Since the inception of First Solar, our flagship module has used our advanced thin film semiconductor technology. Each of our currently produced modules is a glass laminate approximately 4ft x 6ft in size that encapsulates thin film semiconductor materials. At the end of 2021, our modules had an average power output of 455 watts.

Raw Materials

Our module manufacturing process uses approximately 30 types of raw materials and components to construct a solar module, including CdTe, front glass coated with transparent conductive oxide, other semiconductor materials, organics such as photo resist, tempered back glass, frames, packaging components such as interlayer, cord plate/cord plate cap, lead wire, and solar connectors. Before we use these materials and components in our manufacturing process, a supplier must undergo rigorous qualification procedures, and we continually evaluate new suppliers as part of our cost reduction roadmap. When possible, we attempt to use suppliers that can provide a raw material 

9
supply source that is near our manufacturing locations, reducing the cost and lead times for such materials. Several of our key raw materials and components are either single-sourced or sourced from a limited number of suppliers.

Customers

Our customers include developers and operators of systems, utilities, independent power producers, commercial and industrial companies, and other system owners. During 2021, our third-party module sales represented approximately 80% of our total net sales, and we sold the majority of our solar modules to developers and operators of systems in the United States. During 2021, SB Energy accounted for more than 10% of our modules business net sales.

We continue to focus on certain key geographic markets, particularly in areas with abundant solar resources and sizable electricity demand, and additional customer relationships to diversify our customer base. The wholesale commercial and industrial market continues to represent a promising opportunity for the widespread adoption of PV solar technology as corporations undertake certain sustainability commitments. The demand for corporate renewables continues to accelerate, with corporations worldwide committing to the RE100 campaign. We believe we also have a competitive advantage in the commercial and industrial market due to many customers’ sensitivity to the sustainability, experience, and financial stability of their suppliers and geographically diverse operating locations. With our sustainability advantage, financial strength, and global footprint, we are well positioned to meet these needs.

Additionally, the increase of utility-owned generation has expanded the number of potential buyers of our modules as such utility customers benefit from a potentially low cost of capital available through rate-based utility investments. Given their long-term ownership profile, utility-owned generation customers typically seek to partner with stable companies that can provide low-cost alternatives to or replacements for aging fossil fuel-based generation resources, including reliable PV solar technology, thereby mitigating their long-term ownership risks.

Competition

The solar energy and renewable energy sectors are highly competitive and continually evolving as participants in these sectors strive to distinguish themselves within their markets and compete within the larger electric power industry. Among PV solar module manufacturers, the principal method of competition is sales price per watt, which may be influenced by several module value attributes, including wattage (through a larger form factor or an improved conversion efficiency), energy yield, degradation, sustainability, reliability, warranty terms, and customer payment terms. We face intense competition for sales of solar modules, which may result in reduced selling prices and loss of market share. Our primary source of competition is crystalline silicon module manufacturers, the majority of which are linked to China. In addition, we expect to compete with future entrants into the PV solar industry and existing market participants that offer new or differentiated technological solutions. For example, while conventional solar modules, including the solar modules we currently produce, are monofacial, meaning their ability to produce energy is a function of direct and diffuse irradiance on their front side, most module manufacturers offer bifacial modules that also capture diffuse irradiance and reflected light on the back side of a module. Additionally, certain module manufacturers recently introduced n-type mono-crystalline modules, such as tunnel oxide passivated contact (“TOPCon”) modules. N-type solar cells are expected to provide certain improvements to module efficiency, temperature coefficient, and bifacial performance, and claim to provide certain degradation advantages compared to other mono-crystalline modules. For additional information, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors – Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce improved PV products, including as a result of delays in implementing planned advancements, could render our solar modules uncompetitive and reduce our net sales, profitability, and/or market share.”

10
Certain of our existing or future competitors, including many linked to China, may have direct or indirect access to sovereign capital, which could enable such competitors to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if competitors reduce module pricing to levels below their costs, bid aggressively low prices for module sale agreements, or are able to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time. We believe the solar industry may from time to time experience periods of structural imbalance between supply and demand (i.e., where production capacity exceeds global demand), and that excess capacity will also put pressure on pricing, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For additional information, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors – Competition in solar markets globally and across the solar value chain is intense, and could remain that way for an extended period of time. An increased global supply of PV modules has caused and may cause structural imbalances in which global PV module supply exceeds demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.”

Solar Module Warranties

We provide a limited PV solar module warranty covering defects in materials and workmanship under normal use and service conditions for up to 12 years. We also typically warrant that modules installed in accordance with agreed-upon specifications will produce at least 98% of their labeled power output rating during the first year, with the warranty coverage reducing by a degradation factor every year thereafter throughout the limited power output warranty period of up to 30 years. Among other things, our solar module warranty also covers the resulting power output loss from cell cracking. For additional information on our solar module warranty programs, refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors – Problems with product quality or performance may cause us to incur significant and/or unexpected contractual damages and/or warranty and related expenses, damage our market reputation, and prevent us from maintaining or increasing our market share.”

Solar Module Collection and Recycling

In addition to our module warranty commitments, we are also committed to extended producer responsibility and take into account the environmental impact of our products over their entire life cycle. As part of such efforts, we previously established the solar industry’s first global comprehensive module collection and recycling program. Our module recycling process is designed to maximize the recovery of materials, including the glass and encapsulated semiconductor material, for use in new modules or other products and enhances the sustainability profile of our modules. Approximately 90% of each collected First Solar module can be recycled into materials for reuse. For certain legacy customer sales contracts that were covered under this program, which has since been discontinued, we agreed to pay the costs for the collection and recycling of qualifying solar modules, and the end users agreed to notify us, disassemble their solar power systems, package the solar modules for shipment, and revert ownership rights over the modules back to us at the end of the modules’ service lives. We currently have recycling facilities operating at each of our manufacturing facilities in the United States, Malaysia, and Vietnam and at our former manufacturing facility location in Germany.

For modules covered under our program that were previously sold into and installed in the EU, we continue to maintain a commitment to cover the estimated collection and recycling costs consistent with our historical program. The EU’s Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) Directive places the obligation of recycling (including collection, treatment, and environmentally sound disposal) of electrical and electronic equipment products upon producers and is applicable to all PV solar modules in EU member states. As a result of the transposition of the WEEE Directive by the EU member states, we have adjusted our recycling offerings, as required, in various EU member states to ensure compliance with specific EU member state WEEE regulations.

11
Other

Our residual business operations include certain project development activities and O&M services, which are primarily concentrated in Japan, as well as the results of operations from PV solar power systems we own and operate in certain international regions. In late 2021, we received an offer to purchase our project development and O&M services businesses in Japan and determined it was in the best interest of our stockholders to pursue this transaction. As a result, we expect to enter into an agreement for the sale of these businesses in the near term. The completion of the transaction is contingent on the completion of final contract negotiations and the achievement of certain closing conditions. Assuming satisfaction of such items, we expect the sale to be completed in the first half of 2022.

Intellectual Property

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and protect our proprietary technology and to conduct our business without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, and trade secrets, as well as associate and third-party confidentiality agreements, to safeguard our intellectual property. We regularly file patent applications to protect inventions arising from our R&D activities and are currently pursuing patent applications in the United States and other countries. Our patent applications and any future patent applications may not result in a patent being issued with the scope of the claims we seek, or at all, and any patents we may receive may be challenged, invalidated, or declared unenforceable. In addition, we have registered and/or have applied to register trademarks and service marks in the United States and a number of foreign countries for “First Solar.”

With respect to proprietary know-how that is not patentable and processes for which patents are difficult to enforce, we rely on, among other things, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to safeguard our interests. We believe that many elements of our PV solar module manufacturing processes, including our unique materials sourcing, involve proprietary know-how, technology, or data that are not covered by patents or patent applications, including technical processes, equipment designs, algorithms, and procedures. We have taken security measures to protect these elements. Our R&D personnel have entered into confidentiality and proprietary information agreements with us. These agreements address intellectual property protection issues and require our associates to assign to us all of the inventions, designs, and technologies they develop during the course of their employment with us. We also require our customers and business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements before we disclose sensitive aspects of our modules, technology, or business plans. We have not been subject to any material intellectual property infringement or misappropriation claims.

Regulatory, Environmental, Health, and Safety Matters

We are subject to various federal, state, local, and international laws and regulations, and are often subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, and other matters. We are also subject to regulatory oversight and liability if we fail to operate our PV solar power systems in compliance with applicable renewable energy law, electric business law, and project permits and approvals. The impact of these laws and requirements may increase our overall costs and may delay, prevent, or increase the cost of manufacturing PV modules. As we operate in the U.S. and internationally, we are also subject to the application of U.S. trade laws and trade laws of other countries. Such tariffs and policies, or any other U.S. or global trade remedies or other trade barriers that apply to us given our global operations, may directly or indirectly affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors – Existing regulations and policies, changes thereto, and new regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory, and economic barriers to the purchase and use of PV solar products, which may significantly reduce demand for our modules.”

12
We are also subject to the application of various anti-bribery laws, some of which prohibit improper payments to government and non-government persons and entities, and others (e.g., the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and the U.K. Bribery Act) that extend their application to activities outside their country of origin. From time to time, we may compete against companies for contracts in China, India, South America, and the Middle East, which require substantial government contact and where norms can differ from U.S. standards, and not all competitors are subject to compliance with the same anti-bribery laws. See Item 1A. Risk Factors – “We could be adversely affected by any violations of the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act, and other foreign anti-bribery laws.”

We are also subject to various federal, state, local, and international laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water; the use, management, and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes; occupational health and safety; and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Our operations include the use, handling, storage, transportation, generation, and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. Therefore, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines, and civil or criminal sanctions and costs arising from third-party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations or non-compliance with environmental permits required for our operations. We believe we are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety requirements and do not expect to incur material expenditures for environmental and occupational health and safety controls in the foreseeable future. However, future developments such as the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, more aggressive enforcement policies, or the discovery of unknown environmental conditions may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors – Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.”

From time to time, we may also be subject to government policies or laws intended to protect human rights. For example, in late 2021 the U.S. President signed the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act, which bans the import of goods from China’s Xinjiang region into the United States due to concerns about forced labor practices in the region, which provides approximately half of the world’s polysilicon supply. While we do not use polysilicon in our solar modules, which mitigates the potential supply chain disruptions and human rights risks associated with such import ban, the implementation of similar restrictions or trade embargoes on the purchase of certain materials or equipment necessary to sustain our manufacturing operations may require expenditures and process changes to ensure our supply chain remains free of such materials, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We are committed to protecting human rights, enforcing fair labor practices, and addressing the potential risks of forced labor across our own operations and the operations of our suppliers.

Human Capital

As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 4,800 associates (our term for full and part-time employees), including approximately 4,100 in our modules business that work primarily in the United States, Malaysia, and Vietnam. The remainder of our associates are in R&D, sales and marketing, and general and administrative positions.

Our company’s success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train, and retain management, operations, sales, and technical personnel, including personnel in foreign jurisdictions. We strive to attract, hire, and retain qualified individuals globally to further our mission of providing cost-advantaged solar technology through innovation, customer engagement, industry leadership, and operational excellence. We take a consciously inclusive approach to our hiring practices, which we monitor through a review of applicant and new-hire metrics on a quarterly basis. We prohibit discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, veteran status, disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity.

13
We follow a pay-for-performance model in which associates are compensated for achieving goals and associated metrics. We review employee compensation on a regular basis to ensure internal and external equity, including minimum wage and living wage assessments across our global operations. We offer competitive compensation and benefits to our associates, including, among other things, health care and other insurance benefits, retirement programs, paid time off, paid parental leave, flexible work schedules, and education assistance, depending on eligibility.

We are committed to developing and providing career growth opportunities for our associates. We believe a strong culture of inclusiveness is essential to the success of our company. We gather and respond to associate feedback in a variety of ways, including through anonymous, periodic associate engagement surveys and one-on-one interactions. In 2021, we conducted a global inclusion survey and incorporated an inclusion index to provide a baseline for future surveys. In addition to such surveys, we support career coaching, mentorship, and leadership development programs to ensure the professional growth and advancement of our diverse talent.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented specific, rigorous safety protocols and new procedures to protect the health and well-being of our associates, partners, customers, and surrounding communities. In line with guidance from the World Health Organization, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, local health authorities, and other governmental authorities, we have implemented numerous preventative hygiene and safety measures at our global manufacturing, administrative, and other sites and facilities. We also introduced new associate benefits, which directly address the COVID-19-related needs of our associates, including additional and alternative child care, medical, and mental health benefits and support. The majority of our associates who are capable of performing their functions remotely are telecommuting (i.e., working from home).

None of our associates are currently represented by labor unions or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. As we continue to expand domestically and internationally, we may encounter regional laws that mandate union representation or associates who desire union representation or a collective bargaining agreement. We recognize that in the locations where we operate, employees have the right to freely associate or not associate with third-party labor organizations, along with the right to bargain or not to bargain collectively in accordance with local laws.

Available Information

We maintain a website at www.firstsolar.com. We make available free of charge on our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The information contained in or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. We use our website as one means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under the SEC’s Regulation FD. Such disclosures are typically included within the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.firstsolar.com. Accordingly, investors should monitor such portions of our website in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports and other information regarding issuers, such as First Solar, that file electronically with the SEC.

14
Information about Our Executive Officers

Our executive officers and their ages and positions as of March 1, 2022 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mark R. Widmar was appointed Chief Executive Officer in July 2016. He joined First Solar in April 2011 as Chief Financial Officer and also served as First Solar’s Chief Accounting Officer from February 2012 through June 2015. From March 2015 to June 2016, Mr. Widmar served as the Chief Financial Officer and through June 2018, served as a director on the board of the general partner of 8point3 Energy Partners LP (“8point3”), the joint yieldco formed by First Solar and SunPower Corporation in 2015 to own and operate a portfolio of selected solar generation assets. Prior to joining First Solar, Mr. Widmar served as Chief Financial Officer of GrafTech International Ltd., a leading global manufacturer of advanced carbon and graphite materials, from May 2006 through March 2011. Prior to joining GrafTech, Mr. Widmar served as Corporate Controller of NCR Inc. from 2005 to 2006, and was a Business Unit Chief Financial Officer for NCR from November 2002 to his appointment as Controller. He also served as a Division Controller at Dell, Inc. from August 2000 to November 2002. Mr. Widmar also held various financial and managerial positions with Lucent Technologies Inc., Allied Signal, Inc., and Bristol Myers/Squibb, Inc. He began his career in 1987 as an accountant with Ernst & Young. Mr. Widmar holds a Bachelor of Science in business accounting and a Masters of Business Administration from Indiana University.

Alexander R. Bradley was appointed Chief Financial Officer in October 2016. He joined First Solar in May 2008, and previously served as Vice President of both Treasury and Project Finance, leading or supporting the structuring, sale, and financing of over $10 billion and approximately 2.7 GWDC of the Company’s worldwide development assets, including several of the largest PV power plant projects in North America. From June 2016 to June 2018, Mr. Bradley also served as an officer and board member of the general partner of 8point3. Prior to joining First Solar, Mr. Bradley worked at HSBC in investment banking and leveraged finance, in London and New York, covering the energy and utilities sector. He received his Master of Arts from the University of Edinburgh, Scotland.

15
Georges Antoun was appointed Chief Commercial Officer in July 2016. He joined First Solar in July 2012 as Chief Operating Officer before being appointed as President, U.S. in July 2015. Mr. Antoun has over 30 years of operational and technical experience, including leadership positions at several global technology companies. Prior to joining First Solar, Mr. Antoun served as Venture Partner at Technology Crossover Ventures (“TCV”), a private equity and venture firm that he joined in July 2011. Before joining TCV, Mr. Antoun was the Head of Product Area IP & Broadband Networks for Ericsson, based in San Jose, California. Mr. Antoun joined Ericsson in 2007, when Ericsson acquired Redback Networks, a telecommunications equipment company, where Mr. Antoun served as the Senior Vice President of World Wide Sales & Operations. After the acquisition, Mr. Antoun was promoted to Chief Executive Officer of the Redback Networks subsidiary. Prior to Redback Networks, Mr. Antoun spent five years at Cisco Systems, where he served as Vice President of Worldwide Systems Engineering and Field Marketing, Vice President of Worldwide Optical Operations, and Vice President of Carrier Sales. Prior to Cisco Systems, he was the Director of Systems Engineering at Newbridge Networks, a data and voice networking company. Mr. Antoun started his career at Nynex (now Verizon Communications), where he was part of its Science and Technology Division. Mr. Antoun serves as a member of the board of directors of Marathon Digital Holdings. He is also the Chairman of the University of Louisiana’s College of Engineering Dean’s Advisory Council board. He earned a Bachelor of Science degree in engineering from the University of Louisiana at Lafayette and a Master’s degree in information systems engineering from NYU Poly.

Michael Koralewski was appointed Chief Manufacturing Operations Officer in July 2020. Mr. Koralewski provides nearly 25 years of global operational experience to the executive leadership team. Mr. Koralewski joined First Solar in 2006, serving in several senior roles in operations and quality management, including Senior Vice President, Global Manufacturing since 2015; Vice President, Global Site Operations and Plant Manager since 2011; and Vice President, Global Quality since 2009. In all of these roles Mr. Koralewski has been significantly involved since the beginning of First Solar’s manufacturing scaling and expansion from site selection through sustaining operations. Prior to joining First Solar, Mr. Koralewski worked at Dana Incorporated where he held several positions with global responsibility in operations and quality management. He earned a Bachelor of Science in chemical engineering from Case Western Reserve University and a Master of Business Administration from Bowling Green State University.

Kuntal Kumar Verma was appointed Chief Manufacturing Engineering Officer in July 2020. Mr. Verma joined First Solar in 2002, serving in progressively more senior roles in engineering and manufacturing, including Vice President, Global Manufacturing Engineering since 2012. He is responsible for the global manufacturing performance and improvement roadmap, including global technology transfer, new plant start-ups, and strategic initiatives. Prior to joining First Solar, Mr. Verma held several engineering and operations positions at Reliance Industries Limited, India. He is a Master Black Belt in Six Sigma/Lean Manufacturing with an expert certification in Taguchi Methods (Robust Engineering) and a Certification in Production and Inventory Management from American Production and Inventory Control Society. He earned a Bachelor of Science in mechanical engineering from the National Institute of Technology in India, a Master of Science in industrial engineering from the University of Toledo, and a Master of Business Administration from Bowling Green State University.

Patrick Buehler was appointed Chief Quality and Reliability Officer in July 2020. Mr. Buehler joined First Solar in 2006, serving in progressively more senior technical and operations roles in quality and reliability, including Vice President, Quality and Reliability since 2019. He is responsible for ensuring product quality and reliability from the initial stage of research and development through manufacturing; environmental, health, safety, and security measures and results; development and operations of global recycling and waste water treatment facilities; customer service and warranty commitments; and strategic initiatives. Prior to joining First Solar, Mr. Buehler held several roles in manufacturing, engineering, maintenance, and product development at DuPont de Nemours, Inc. and Cummins, Inc. He earned a Bachelor of Science in mechanical engineering from the University of Cincinnati and a Master of Science in mechanical engineering from Purdue University.

16
Markus Gloeckler was appointed Chief Technology Officer in November 2020 after being appointed Co-Chief Technology Officer in July 2020. He is focused on driving First Solar’s thin film PV module technology. Mr. Gloeckler has extensive experience guiding strategic research and development activities and has served First Solar as Vice President and Chief Scientist, before being promoted to Senior Vice President, Module Research and Development. He was instrumental in enabling First Solar’s achievement of various world records relating to conversion efficiency for CdTe solar cells. In his role as Vice President of Research, he led the thin film technology transfer from General Electric to First Solar following the intellectual property acquisition in 2013. He joined First Solar in 2005 in an engineering function supporting First Solar’s technology development after the initial launch of the Series 2 module. Mr. Gloeckler holds an undergraduate degree in microsystems engineering from the Regensburg University of Applied Sciences in Germany, and a Doctor of Philosophy in physics from Colorado State University.

Caroline Stockdale joined First Solar in October 2019 as Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Communications and was appointed Chief People and Communications Officer in October 2020. Prior to joining First Solar, she served as the Chief Executive Officer for First Perform, a provider of human resources services for a variety of customers, from Fortune 100 companies to cyber start-ups. Previously, she served as Chief Human Resources Officer for Medtronic from 2010 to 2013 and Warner Music Group from 2005 to 2009. Before joining Warner Music Group, she served as the senior human resources leader in global divisions of American Express from 2002 to 2005 and General Electric from 1997 to 2002. Ms. Stockdale is a member of the Forbes Human Resources Council. Ms. Stockdale holds a Bachelor of Arts in political theories and institutions, and philosophy, from the University of Sheffield, England.

Jason Dymbort joined First Solar in March 2008, serving in a broad range of legal roles before being appointed General Counsel and Secretary in July 2020. Between 2015 and 2018, Mr. Dymbort served as General Counsel and Secretary for the general partner of 8point3 Energy Partners, then a publicly-traded yieldco and affiliate of First Solar. Before joining First Solar, Mr. Dymbort was a corporate attorney at Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP. He holds a Juris Doctor degree from the University of Pennsylvania Law School, where he was a member of the Penn Law Review, and a bachelor’s degree from Brandeis University.

17
Item 1A. Risk Factors