Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

We are exposed to market risk in the normal course of our business operations due to ongoing investing and funding activities, including those associated with our pension plan assets. Market risk refers to the potential change in fair value of a financial instrument as a result of fluctuations in interest rates and equity prices. We do not hold or issue derivative instruments, derivative commodity instruments or other financial instruments for trading purposes. As a result, we do not undertake any specific actions to cover our exposure to market risks, and we are not party to any market risk management agreements other than in the normal course of business. Our primary market risk exposures from interest rate risk and equity price risk are as follows:

Interest Rate Exposure

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the interest-bearing portion of our pension investment portfolio and the related actuarial liability for pension obligations, as well as our floating rate indebtedness. As of December 31, 2021, 82% of our total debt had fixed interest rates. We had no interest rate swap agreements in effect at December 31, 2021. We believe that our currently outstanding obligation exposure to interest rate changes is minimal.

Our discount rate assumption for our pension benefit obligation is determined at least annually, or whenever required, with assistance from our actuaries based on the pattern of expected future benefit payments and the prevailing rates available on long-term, high quality corporate bonds with durations approximate to that of our benefit obligation. As of December 31, 2021, our discount rate utilized in calculating our benefit plan obligation was 2.90%. 

Our objectives in managing our interest rate risk are to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, 18% of our outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2021 have floating interest rates. The annual impact of 100 basis points change in the LIBOR would result in approximately $15 million of additional interest expense, provided that the LIBOR rate exceeds the LIBOR floor. An adverse change in interest rates would increase the amount that we pay on our variable rate obligations and could result in fluctuations in the fair value of our fixed rate obligations. Based upon our overall interest rate exposure, a near-term change in interest rates would not materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

At December 31, 2021, the fair value of our debt was estimated to be approximately $8 billion, based on quoted market prices, our overall weighted average borrowing rate was 5.702% and our overall weighted average maturity was approximately eight years. As of December 31, 2021, the weighted average maturity increased from 5 years as of December 31, 2020. Refer to Note 10 for discussion of the impact of the Chapter 11 Cases on our debt obligations.

Equity Price Exposure

Our exposure to market risks for changes in equity security prices as of December 31, 2021 is primarily limited to our pension plan assets. We have no other security investments of any significant amount.

The value of our pension plan assets increased $79 million from $2,507 million at December 31, 2020 to $2,586 million at April 30, 2021. This increase primarily resulted from contributions of $32 million and investment returns of $72 million, net of investment management expenses and other expenses, partially offset by benefit payments to participants of $25 million.

Our pension plan assets increased $69 million from $2,586 million at April 30, 2021 to $2,655 million at December 31, 2021. This increase was primarily a result of contributions of $10 million and investment returns of $152 million, net of investment management expenses and other expenses, partially offset by benefit payments of $93 million.

‎  

44

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS PARENT, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data