ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to market risks that may result from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit risks and market prices. To reduce certain of these risks, we enter into various types of foreign currency or interest rate derivative hedging transactions, follow investment guidelines and monitor outstanding receivables as part of our risk management program.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk 

We have operations in more than 35 countries worldwide. As a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we distribute our products. Our operating results are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and various foreign currencies, the most significant of which is the Euro. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. Conversely, when the U.S. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative value of such sales increase. Overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, we benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar. 

Approximately 26% of our product sales were denominated in foreign currencies during 2021. To partially mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on net cash flows from our foreign currency denominated sales, we may enter into foreign currency exchange forward or option contracts. We also hedge certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a transaction is recorded and the date that cash is collected or paid. In general, the market risks of these contracts are offset by corresponding gains and losses on the transactions being hedged. 

As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had open foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts of $2.9 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively. A hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates compared with the U.S. dollar relative to exchange rates as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 would have resulted in a reduction in fair value of these contracts of approximately $333 million and $249 million, respectively, and if realized, would have negatively affected earnings over the remaining life of the contracts. The analysis does not consider the impact that hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates would have on anticipated transactions that these foreign currency sensitive instruments were designed to offset.

Interest Rate Risk 

Our portfolio of available-for-sale debt securities and our senior unsecured notes create an exposure to interest rate risk. With respect to our investment portfolio, we adhere to an investment policy that requires us to limit amounts invested in securities based on credit rating, maturity, industry group and investment type and issuer, except for securities issued by the U.S. government. The goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows: 

• safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk; 

• liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and 

• a competitive after-tax rate of return. 

The following table summarizes the expected maturities and average interest rates of our interest-generating assets and interest-bearing liabilities as of December 31, 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________

(1) Amounts represent principal balances. In addition to the senior unsecured fixed rate notes, we have a $2.5 billion five-year revolving credit facility that matures in June 2025. There were no amounts outstanding under the five-year revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2021. See Note 12. Debt and Credit Facilities of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 

47

Market Price Risk 

We hold shares of common stock of certain publicly traded biotechnology companies primarily in connection with license and collaboration agreements. These equity securities are measured at fair value with any changes in fair value recognized in earnings. 

The fair value of these equity securities was approximately $1.8 billion and $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Changes in fair value of these equity securities are impacted by the volatility of the stock market and changes in general economic conditions, among other factors. A hypothetical 20% increase or decrease in the stock prices of these equity securities would have increased or decreased their fair value as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 by approximately $364 million and $478 million, respectively.

48

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA