Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Derivative Financial Instruments

Certain financial information about the Company's derivative financial instruments is set forth under the heading "Derivative Financial Instruments" in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K.

We have performed a sensitivity analysis as of January 29, 2022 based on a model that measures the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates to U.S. dollars (with all other variables held constant) on our underlying estimated major foreign currency exposures, net of derivative financial instruments. The foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect as of January 29, 2022. The sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have an unfavorable impact on the underlying cash flow, net of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, of $28 million as of January 29, 2022.

Debt

Certain financial information about the Company's debt is set forth under the heading "Debt and Credit Facilities" in Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K. On September 27, 2021, the Company completed the issuance of the Senior Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion and used the net proceeds from the offering, together with cash on hand, to complete tender offers and purchase an aggregate principal amount of $1.9 billion of the Company’s Secured Notes. On October 27, 2021, the Company redeemed the remaining outstanding Secured Notes that were not tendered in the tender offers and paid the related make-whole premiums. The Senior Notes have a fixed interest rate and are exposed to interest rate risk that is limited to changes in fair value. The scheduled maturity of the Notes is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On September 1, 2021, Standard & Poor's upgraded our corporate credit rating from BB- with a positive outlook to BB with a positive outlook. We also have a corporate credit rating of Ba2 with a positive outlook from Moody's. In addition, in conjunction with our financings, Standard & Poor’s assigned a BB rating and Moody's assigned a Ba3 rating to our long-term senior unsecured notes. Any future reduction in the Moody's and Standard & Poor's ratings would potentially result in an increase to our interest expense on future borrowings.

Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments

Certain financial information about the Company's cash equivalents and short-term investments is set forth under the heading "Fair Value Measurements" in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K. 

We have highly liquid fixed and variable income investments classified as cash and cash equivalents. All highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase are classified as cash and cash equivalents. Our cash equivalents are placed primarily in time deposits. We generally value these investments at their original purchase prices plus interest that has accrued at the stated rate. 

40

As of January 29, 2022, the Company held no available-for-sale debt securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, therefore effectively reducing our overall market risk related to short-term investments. As of January 30, 2021, the Company held $410 million of available-for-sale debt securities with original maturity dates greater than three months and less than two years within short-term investments on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In addition, as of January 30, 2021, the Company held $90 million of available-for-sale debt securities with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase within cash and cash equivalents. Unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale debt securities included in accumulated other comprehensive income were immaterial as of January 30, 2021. 

41

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.