Item 1A. Risk Factors 

The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. 

Risks Related to the Company 

If we are not successful in the continued development, timely manufacture, and introduction of new products or product categories, overall demand for our products could decrease to the extent that lost sales and profits are not entirely offset.  

We expect that a significant portion of our future revenue will continue to be derived from sales of newly introduced products. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. If we fail to introduce new products, or to modify or improve our existing products, in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such products. However, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed, will achieve significant customer acceptance.  

If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance our existing products, our future results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. Any future challenges related to new products, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, supply chain constraints, lack of market acceptance, delays in regulatory approval, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  

If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, the associated loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share.  

The markets for many of our products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products or secure better product positioning with retailers. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

13 

Public health emergencies or outbreaks of epidemics, pandemics, or contagious diseases have had and will likely continue to have significant impacts on our business. 

Widespread public health emergencies or outbreaks of epidemics, pandemics, or contagious diseases, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have had, and will likely continue to have, significant impacts on our business. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to rapidly evolve, creating disruption and uncertainty around the world, which has resulted in, and we expect will continue to result in, a change in overall demand for certain of our products and other operational impacts. There are unknown factors, such as the duration and severity of the pandemic, evolving variants of the virus that causes COVID-19 and the efficacy of vaccines against those variants, the nature and length of actions taken by governments, businesses and individuals to contain or mitigate its impact, the severity and duration of the economic impact caused by the pandemic, the uncertainty surrounding the distribution and uptake of vaccines, the impact of employees who are unable to work due to quarantine requirements or who decline to adhere to government-mandated vaccination or testing requirements, along with the effectiveness of our response, that may materially impact our business operations, results of operations, and its ultimate impact on our financial condition. 

Demand for certain of our products has been, and may continue to be, affected in several ways during the COVID-19 pandemic. Some consumers have been and may continue to be less able or less likely to purchase certain of our products due to economic hardships, governmental restrictions affecting them and the retail outlets that sell our products, voluntary behavior changes associated with public health guidance, the prioritization of other goods and services by online retailers that sell our products, restrictions on the ability of online retailers to ship products to certain areas, the cancellation of trade shows and other events that are otherwise important in the marketing and sale of our products, and the potential failure and closure of retail outlets and online retailers that sell our products. Certain of our sales and distribution offices have experienced and may again experience temporary closure due to governmental restrictions. Additional or prolonged closures of certain sales and distribution offices could affect our ability to market and distribute products to meet customer demand. The adverse impacts of the pandemic have created economic stress in the global marketplace, periods of high levels of unemployment, loss of income and/or wealth for some individuals, and general economic uncertainty. These conditions have affected and are expected to continue to affect the willingness or ability of some customers to purchase certain of our products or those of original equipment manufacturers in which our products are installed. We have also experienced increased demand for certain of our products during the COVID-19 pandemic as consumer behavior and demand shifted toward products offered by our fitness, outdoor, and marine segments, and our aviation and auto segments have trended positively subsequent to the initial declines in those segments. It is not yet known whether certain of these behaviors and demand will persist, and there has been a decline in the demand for certain of these products and may be a decline in demand for others as people return to pre-pandemic lifestyles. 

Our supply chain has been and may continue to be adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. We have experienced delays in procuring and may continue to be unable to procure certain components from our suppliers, and the cost of procuring certain components has increased and could continue to increase. We have faced logistics constraints and higher freight costs, the scope and severity of which may intensify. Reduced demand for certain of our products has resulted in, and may continue to result in, reduced utilization of certain of our manufacturing facilities and higher per-unit costs for certain products. Certain of our manufacturing facilities have experienced and may in the future experience inopportune temporary closures or reduced hours, which could adversely affect the costs incurred to produce our products and our ability to meet demand. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has had and will continue to have several other operational impacts on our business, which has and may continue to include employees working remotely, temporarily ceasing operations in some offices due to government restrictions, business travel restrictions, and the cancellation of events that are otherwise important in the development, marketing and sale of our products. These changes in our business operations may result in reduced efficiency and lower productivity. We have incurred and may continue to incur increased costs as we provide additional benefits to assist our employees during the COVID-19 pandemic and provide a safe and healthy workplace for employees who continue to work in our facilities. Similar operational and financial hardships on our business partners may result in aged or uncollectable receivables, and the reduced demand for certain of our products could result in obsolescence of certain inventory. If the economy experiences a sustained downturn of significant proportion that impacts portions of our business, we may also need to incur the costs and organizational impacts of personnel restructuring. 

14 

Additional risks and impacts including gross margin fluctuation, foreign currency fluctuations, product development challenges, impacts to our key personnel, and dependencies on third party suppliers, may be heightened as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and evolving variants of the virus that causes COVID-19. There are further unknown risks and impacts due to the uncertainty and rapidly evolving nature of the pandemic including, but not limited to, uncertainty around the evolution of the pandemic, the unprecedented imposition of preventative measures by governments that impact the economy and normal operations of a business and the timing and manner of relaxation of those measures. Potential future health emergencies may present risks and impacts similar to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. If we are unable to manage these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially impacted. 

Maturation or contraction of the market for wearable devices or categories of these devices could adversely affect our revenue and profits. 

We have experienced annual growth in sales and profits in our outdoor and fitness segments, which have benefited from increased sales of wearable devices. If the overall wearable device market declines, or categories of devices within the wearable device market decline significantly, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. 

We depend on third party suppliers and licensors, some of which are sole source, for technology and components used in our products. Our production and business would be seriously harmed if these suppliers or licensors are not able to meet our demand and alternative sources are not available, or if the costs of components rise.  

We are dependent on third party suppliers for various components used in our current products. Some of the components that we procure from third party suppliers include semiconductors and electroluminescent panels, liquid crystal displays, memory chips, batteries and microprocessors. The availability of high-quality components at reasonable cost is essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Some components we use are from sole source suppliers.  

We have and may continue to experience shortages of certain components as well as delays in procuring certain components. In addition, a shortage in supply of components may result in an increase of the costs of procuring these components. If suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components on a timely basis or if we are unable to obtain components from an alternative source, or if the price of alternative components is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed.  

Our products are also dependent on certain licensed technology and content. If we are unable to continue sourcing such technology and content from our licensors and are unable to obtain an alternative source, or if our relationships with our licensors change detrimentally, our ability to provide certain features in our products would be seriously harmed.  

We expect to make significant investments in the auto OEM operating segment for the foreseeable future, which would continue to negatively impact total Company profits and may negatively impact shareholder value if the operating segment fails to become profitable.  

We have been awarded several tier-one and tier-two auto OEM supplier contracts. To fulfill the associated program commitments, we are investing significantly in facilities, research and development, and other operating expenses and expect to continue doing so in the coming years. Gross margins associated with these auto OEM programs will negatively impact consolidated gross margin as auto OEM revenue increases as a percentage of consolidated revenue. If we are not successful in winning additional contracts and substantially leveraging our investments, operating losses in the auto OEM segment will continue to negatively impact total Company profits and may negatively impact shareholder value. We may incur substantial restructuring costs if we are unable to generate profits from auto OEM contracts. 

15 

Our business and reputation have been and are expected to continue to be impacted by information technology system failures and network disruptions. 

The Company and its global supply chain have experienced and are expected to continue to be exposed to information technology system failures and network disruptions including those caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and ransomware or other cybersecurity incidents.  

We have technology and processes in place designed to detect and respond to such failures and disruptions. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, and the nature of other potential incidents changes frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, our detection and response measures may be ineffective or inadequate. Furthermore, even with appropriate training conducted in support of such measures, human errors and omissions may still occur resulting in system failures and/or disruptions to our information technology infrastructure. Therefore, the Company’s business continuity and disaster recovery planning, or those of others in our global supply chain, may not be able to sufficiently mitigate all threats. 

Such failures or disruptions can materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition through, among other things, a disruption of internal operations, including order processing, invoicing, and manufacturing and distribution of products, and a loss of functionality of critical systems and online services. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks have caused, and are expected to continue to cause, us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, to conduct additional employee training, and to engage third party security experts and consultants. Although we maintain cyber insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and significant self-insured retentions, is designed to address certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. 

Losses or unauthorized access to or releases of proprietary or confidential information, including personal information, could result in significant reputational, financial, legal, and operational consequences. 

We have experienced, and are expected to continue to experience, malicious attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems that seek to compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of proprietary and confidential information. A breach of our security systems and procedures or those of others in our global supply chain could result in significant data losses or theft of our intellectual property, confidential and proprietary information, or that of our business partners, as well as our users’ or employees' personal information, which could compromise our competitive position, reputation, operating results, and financial condition. Also, if we fail to reasonably maintain the security of our intellectual property, confidential and proprietary information, or that of our business partners, or the personal information of our users or employees, we may be subject to private litigation, government investigations, regulatory proceedings, enforcement actions, and cause us to incur potentially significant liability, damages, or remediation costs. Although we maintain cyber insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and significant self-insured retentions, is designed to address certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. 

Our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if we lose our key personnel.  

Our future success depends significantly on the continued contribution of our key executive, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, and administrative personnel. Recruiting and retaining the skilled personnel we require to maintain and grow our market position has been and is expected to continue to be difficult. The overall shortage in qualified workforce personnel combined with the increased willingness of companies to hire such personnel in fully remote positions has, and in the future may continue, to increase our compensation costs in order for us to retain such personnel. If we fail to hire and retain qualified employees, our business and growth prospects will be harmed. 

We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our key executive officers. Swiss law prohibits us from paying severance payments to our senior executive officers, which may impair our ability to recruit for these positions. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our key executive officers and do not currently intend to obtain such insurance. The loss of the services of any of our senior level management, or other key employees, could harm our business.  

16 

We may experience unique economic and political risks associated with companies that operate in Taiwan.  

Our principal manufacturing facilities are located in Taiwan. Deterioration of relations between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China, also referred to as the PRC, and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions of Taiwan in the future, could cause disruption to our manufacturing operations which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price and the liquidity of our shares.  

The PRC asserts sovereignty over all of China, including Taiwan, certain other islands, and all of mainland China. The PRC government does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Although significant economic and cultural relations exist between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has indicated that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan in certain circumstances, such as the declaration of independence by Taiwan. There is also a risk that the PRC government may unilaterally seek to occupy Taiwan, by force if necessary, without a clear triggering event. In this scenario, Garmin’s manufacturing facilities in Taiwan could be subject to disruptions that could have a material negative impact to our operations. The United States' relations with Taiwan are governed by the 1979 Taiwan Relations Act, which signifies when the U.S. switched diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to the PRC, referred to as the "one-China" policy. Deviations from the "one-China" policy could lead to adverse changes in China-U.S. and China-Taiwan relations and could materially adversely affect our operations in Taiwan in the future. 

Changes in applicable tax laws or resolutions of tax disputes could result in adverse tax consequences to the Company.  

Our tax positions could be adversely impacted by changes to tax laws, tax treaties, or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority in which we file income tax returns, particularly in the U.S., Switzerland, Taiwan, and United Kingdom (U.K.). We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals.  

Global taxing standards continue to evolve as a result of the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) recommendations aimed at preventing perceived base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) by multinational corporations. While these recommendations do not change tax law, the countries where we operate may implement legislation or take unilateral actions which may result in adverse effects to our income tax provision and financial statements. Partially to respond to changes to global tax standards, we initiated an intercompany transaction in 2020 which migrates ownership of certain intellectual property from Switzerland to the United States, which is the primary location of research, development and executive management. At the end of this migration, a higher percentage of income will be recognized in the U.S. Due to the subjectivity inherent in transfer pricing associated with this intercompany transaction, we are pursuing an advanced pricing agreement with relevant jurisdictions to provide certainty regarding the pricing. However, we are unable to predict the outcome of the final advanced pricing agreement and related negotiations, which could materially and/or adversely impact our income tax provision, net income or cash flows for periods during negotiation and upon finalization.  

In 2021, the OECD continued work on the BEPS project by issuing a statement regarding a two-pillar solution which includes within “Pillar Two” a global minimum tax. Numerous countries have signed onto the OECD statement including Switzerland, the U.S. and the U.K. Recently, Switzerland’s Federal Council proposed legislation which would implement a minimum tax of 15% in 2024. Neither the OECD statement nor proposed legislation changes actual tax law, but these actions may lead to legislation in those countries in which we operate. The passage of a minimum tax may result in an increase in the tax paid by the Company which could materially and/or adversely impact our income tax provision and financial statements. 

Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain, most notably in the area of transfer pricing. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. 

17 

Changes to trade regulations, including trade restrictions, sanctions, or tariffs, could significantly harm our results of operations. 

Trade and other international disputes can result in tariffs, sanctions, and other measures that restrict international trade and can adversely affect our business. For example, tensions between the U.S. and the PRC have led to a series of tariffs being imposed by the U.S. on imports from the PRC. Many other countries have considered or imposed similar measures. The imposition of additional governmental controls or regulations that create new or enhanced restrictions on free trade, trade sanctions, or tariffs, particularly those applicable to materials or goods from the PRC, could have a substantial adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 

Our results of operations and financial condition are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency translation. 

The movement of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar affects the U.S. Dollar value of the Company’s foreign currency-denominated sales. The weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar could have a significant effect on our revenue, gross margin, and profitability, or may cause the Company to raise international pricing, which could potentially reduce demand for our products. Conversely, a strengthening of certain foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar could increase product costs and operating expenses denominated in those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins and profitability. We have not historically used financial instruments to hedge our foreign currency exchange rate risks. 

We have experienced significant foreign currency gains and losses due to the strengthening and weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to certain other currencies. The majority of our consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by exchange rate impacts on the significant cash, receivables, and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Such gain or loss will create variations in our earnings per share. However, because there is minimal cash impact caused by such exchange rate variations, management will continue to focus on our operating performance before the impact of foreign currency gains and losses.  

Economic, regulatory, and political conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue and profits. 

Our revenue and profits depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. We have operations outside the United States that make up a significant portion of our total revenue, which can present challenges depending on economic and geopolitical conditions on both a global and regional scale. Economic weakness or constrained consumer and business spending has resulted in periods of decreased revenue in the past, and could in the future result in decreased revenue and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our retailers and OEM customers have resulted, and could result in the future, in significant bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  

If we do not correctly anticipate demand for our products, we may not be able to secure sufficient quantities or cost-effective production of our products or we could have costly excess production or inventories.  

We have generally been able to increase or decrease production to meet fluctuations in demand. However, the demand for our products depends on many factors and may be difficult to forecast. We expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand as we introduce and support a diverse product portfolio, competition in the market for our products intensifies and the markets for some of our products mature. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could cause the following problems in our operations:  

•

If demand increases beyond what we forecast, we would have to rapidly increase production. We would depend on suppliers to provide additional volumes of components and those suppliers might not be able to increase production rapidly enough, due to supply chain issues or other constraints, to meet unexpected demand.  

•

Rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand could result in higher costs for manufacturing and supply of components, higher freight costs associated with urgent distribution of the products, and other expenses. These higher costs could lower our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing quality could decline, which may also lower our margins and reduce customer satisfaction. 

18 

•

If forecasted demand does not develop, we could have excess inventories of finished products and components, which would use cash and could lead to write-offs of some or all of the excess inventories. Lower than forecasted demand could also result in excess manufacturing capacity or reduced manufacturing efficiencies at our facilities, which could result in lower margins. 

Gross margins for our products may fluctuate or erode.  

Gross margins in some of our segments are volatile and could decline in the future due to competitive price reductions that are not fully offset by material cost reductions. In addition, our overall gross margin may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of other factors, including product mix, foreign exchange rates, freight and component costs, manufacturing facility utilization, and unit volumes. In particular, the average selling prices of a specific product tend to decrease over that product’s life. To offset such decreases, we intend to rely primarily on component cost reduction, obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacturing of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and therefore can be sold at higher average selling prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such yield improvements or cost reductions or introduce any such new products in the future. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner or our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 

Our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, and we could suffer loss if they infringe upon others’ rights or are infringed upon by others.  

We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. To this end, we hold rights to a number of patents and registered trademarks and regularly file applications to attempt to protect our rights in new technology and trademarks. However, there is no guarantee that our patent applications will become issued patents, or that our trademark applications will become registered trademarks. In addition, effective copyright, patent and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain countries. Moreover, even if approved, our patents or trademarks may thereafter be successfully challenged by others or otherwise become invalidated for a variety of reasons. Thus, any patents or trademarks we currently have or may later acquire may not provide us a significant competitive advantage.  

The value of our products relies substantially on our technical innovation in fields in which there are many patent filings. Third parties may claim that we or our customers (some of whom are indemnified by us) are infringing their intellectual property rights. For example, individuals and groups may purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from us or our customers. The number of these claims has increased in recent years and may continue to increase in the future. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. From time to time we receive letters alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights and we have been, and currently are, a defendant in lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Litigation concerning patents or other intellectual property is costly and time consuming. We may seek licenses from such parties, but they could refuse to grant us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms. Such infringement claims could also cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend or permanently cease the use of critical technologies or processes or the production or sale of major products.  

We may become subject to significant product liability costs.  

If our products malfunction or contain errors or defects, we could be subject to significant liability for personal injury and property damage and, under certain circumstances, could be subject to a judgment for punitive damages. We maintain insurance against accident-related risks involving our products. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages to others or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, insurance coverage may not cover awards of punitive damages and may not cover the cost of associated legal fees and defense costs, which could result in lower margins. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover the award, this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

19 

We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. 

We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and the outcomes can be difficult to predict. Management may not adequately reserve for a contingent liability, or we may suffer unforeseen liabilities, which could then impact the results of a financial period. A material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable and could harm our results of operations and financial condition. 

The long-term effects of the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union (“Brexit”) are not yet known and the uncertainty creates challenges and risks which could have a material effect on our business and results of operations. 

The United Kingdom (U.K.) formally left the European Union (E.U.) on January 31, 2020. As a result, the U.K. is no longer part of the European Single Market and European Union Customs Union effective January 1, 2021. The E.U.-U.K. Trade and Cooperation Agreement (TCA) became effective on May 1, 2021. Under the TCA, there is no longer free movement of goods or people between the U.K. and the E.U., which has resulted and could continue to result in certain delays in the shipment of goods from the U.K. to the E.U. The long-term risks of Brexit include economic recessions in the U.K. or other European markets and currency instability for both the British Pound Sterling and the Euro. 

We have operations in the U.K., including offices and a distribution facility, and in several E.U. member states. Brexit therefore has impacted and will continue to impact our operations. While these impacts have not yet been material to our business operations, results of operations, and financial condition, risks such as slow or inefficient border clearance, prolonged economic recession, and currency fluctuations could have material adverse effects in the future. 

Our products may contain undetected security vulnerabilities, which could result in damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diverted development resources and increased warranty claims, and litigation. 

Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products could expose them to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses and other malicious software programs that could attack our products. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could harm our reputation and lead some customers to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases, or use competing products. 

As a business that operates worldwide, we are subject to complex and changing global laws and regulations, which exposes the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs and other adverse effects on our business.  

Our global operations are subject to complex and changing laws and regulations, including those in the following areas: telecommunications; environmental, health and safety; labor and employment; antitrust; data privacy and security; consumer protection; product liability; anticorruption; import, export and trade; foreign exchange controls; anti–money laundering; and tax.  

Compliance with these laws and regulations is onerous and expensive, increasing the cost of conducting our global operations. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable global laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that at all times we will be in compliance with all global regulations given their multitude, complexity and ever-changing nature. If we are found to have violated laws and regulations, it could materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. 

Our business is subject to a variety of United States and international laws, regulations and other legal obligations regarding data protection.  

We collect, store, process, and use personal information and other user data. Our users’ personal information may include, among other information, names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, payment account information, height, weight, age, gender, heart rates, sleeping patterns, GPS-based location, and activity patterns.  

20 

Regulatory authorities and legislative bodies around the world, including in the United States, have enacted or are considering enacting a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. These laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Noncompliance could result in significant penalties, governmental investigations and regulatory proceedings, litigation, harm to our brand, and a decrease in the use of our products and services. Many of these laws provide for significant penalties. Under the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union, for example, potential penalties can be as high as 4% of a company’s total global revenue. 

Some of our products are subject to governmental regulation or certification. Failure to obtain required certifications of our products on a timely basis, either due to government shutdown or other delays in the certification process, could harm our business.  

Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certification is required for all of our aviation products that are intended for installation in type-certificated aircraft. To the extent required, certification is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources. An inability to obtain, or excessive delay in obtaining, such certifications could have an adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products and, for certain aviation OEM products, our customers’ ability to sell airplanes. Delays in our obtaining certification for our aviation products have resulted and may in the future result in our being required to pay compensation to our customers. Additionally, failure of the United States Congress to appropriate funds for FAA operations that results in a shutdown of FAA operations or furloughing of FAA employees, due to partial or complete government shutdowns or otherwise, could result in delays in the required FAA certification of our avionics products and in the production, sale and registration of aircraft that use our avionics products. Therefore, such inabilities or delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, we cannot assure that our certified products will not be decertified. Any such decertification could have an adverse effect on our operating results.  

In addition, in accordance with FCC rules and regulations, wireless transceiver products are required to be certified by the FCC in the United States and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. Garmin’s products sold in Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission. A delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements to Garmin’s products, or losing certification for Garmin’s existing products could adversely affect our business. 

Changes in our United States federal income tax classification, or that of our subsidiaries, could result in adverse tax consequences to our 10% or greater U.S. shareholders. 

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “2017 Act”) signed on December 22, 2017 may have changed the consequences to U.S. shareholders that own, or are considered to own, as a result of the attribution rules, ten percent or more of the voting power or value of the stock of a non-U.S. corporation (a 10% U.S. shareholder) under the U.S. federal income tax law applicable to owners of U.S. controlled foreign corporations (“CFCs”). 

The 2017 Act repealed Internal Revenue Code Section 958(b)(4), which, unless clarified in future regulations or other guidance, may result in classification of certain of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries as CFCs with respect to any single 10% U.S. shareholder. This may be the result without regard to whether 10% U.S. shareholders together own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of the Company as was the case under prior rules. 

Additional tax consequences to 10% U.S. shareholders of a CFC may result from other provisions of the 2017 Act. For example, the 2017 Act added Section 951A which requires a 10% U.S. shareholder of a CFC to include in income its pro-rata share of the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) of the CFC. The 2017 Act also eliminated the requirement in Section 951(a) necessitating that a foreign corporation be considered a CFC for an uninterrupted period of at least 30 days in order for a 10% U.S. shareholder to have a current income inclusion. 

From time to time, the Company may elect to employ antidilutive measures such as a stock buyback program. These measures could inadvertently create additional 10% U.S. shareholders and thus trigger adverse tax consequences for those shareholders as described above. We urge shareholders to consult their individual tax advisers for advice regarding the 2017 Act revisions to the U.S. federal income tax law applicable to owners of CFCs given the current uncertainty regarding their scope of applicability. 

21 

Natural disasters, catastrophic events, or climate change could affect our financial results.  

Natural disasters and extreme weather events, such as tsunamis, typhoons, floods, wildfires, or earthquakes, could occur in a region where we have a manufacturing or warehousing facility which would cause disruptions in our business operations or loss of inventory. Global climate change could also result in certain types of natural disasters occurring more frequently or with more intense effects. For descriptions and locations of our principal properties, see Item 2, “Properties”. These events could also have an impact on our suppliers and affect our supply chain. If our backup and recovery plans are not sufficient to minimize business disruption and if our insurance is not sufficient to recover the costs associated with these types of events, our financial results could be adversely affected. 

Climate change can also pose a risk to our business due to evolving regulatory and legislative measures surrounding climate change. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulates greenhouse gas emissions under the authority granted to it under the Clean Air Act. U.S. Congress, in addition to other regulatory authorities and legislative bodies around the world, could pass further legislation to mandate greenhouse gas emission reduction, implement cap-and-trade programs, or promote renewable energy and energy efficiency. Such measures could influence mobility and transportation trends, which could decrease the demand for certain of our products. 

If climate change has impacts on natural disasters or the regulatory environment as discussed above, it could result in a change in demand for certain products in markets that we serve, including auto, aviation, and marine. If we fail to adjust our product and service offerings to respond to new opportunities driven by changes in regulation and/or consumer preferences, it could have an adverse effect on our financial results. 

Because it is uncertain what laws and regulations will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws and regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 

Declines in consumer auto profits could negatively impact the carrying value of the goodwill associated with the reporting unit.  

Revenue and profits of the consumer auto reporting unit declined for a number of years through fiscal 2020, as competing technologies emerged and market saturation occurred for certain key products. Revenue and profit of the consumer auto reporting unit has since increased, but some uncertainty remains regarding the long-term growth and profitability of the reporting unit. There is no assurance that we can continue to generate profits from the consumer auto segment, and in the future some or all of the goodwill associated with the consumer auto reporting unit could be at risk of impairment. 

Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations and seasonality.  

Our operating results are difficult to predict. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. If such operating results decline, the price of our stock could decline. As we have expanded our operations, our operating expenses, particularly our research and development and information technology costs, have increased as a percentage of our sales in some periods. If revenues decrease and we continue to increase operating expenses, our operating results would be negatively affected.  

Historically, our revenues have been lower in the first quarter of each fiscal year as many of our devices are highly consumer-oriented, and consumer buying is traditionally lower in this quarter. However, this can fluctuate based on the timing of new product launches. Sales of certain of our fitness, outdoor, marine, and auto products tend to be higher in our second fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending for such products in the spring season. Sales of many of our consumer products also have been higher in our fourth fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending patterns on electronic devices during the holiday season.  

We rely on independent dealers and distributors to sell our products, and disruption to these channels would harm our business.  

Because we sell many of our products to independent dealers and distributors, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory levels and support for our products. In particular, our dealers and distributors maintain significant levels of our products in their inventories. If dealers and distributors attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted.  

22 

Many of our dealers and distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our dealers and distributors more favorable terms, those dealers and distributors may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with dealers and distributors or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer.  

Our large customers may also seek to leverage their position to improve their profitability through increased promotional programs or other measures, which could have a negative impact on our gross margin. Additionally, the loss of any large customer could adversely affect our sales and profits. See Note 2 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on concentration of credit risk.  

We may pursue strategic acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, and our business could be materially harmed if we fail to successfully identify, evaluate, complete, and integrate such transactions.  

We continually evaluate acquisition opportunities and opportunities to make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or to enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets, additional product or services offerings, additional distribution or marketing synergies or additional industry expertise. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates in the future, we may not be able to complete those transactions on commercially favorable terms, or at all.  

Any past or future acquisition could also result in difficulties assimilating acquired employees, operations, and products and diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities. Integration of acquired companies may result in problems related to integration of technology and inexperienced management teams. Due diligence performed prior to closing acquisitions may not uncover certain risks or liabilities that could materially impact our business and financial results. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. We may not successfully integrate business, operational, and financial activities such as internal controls, Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 compliance, cyber security measures, the GDPR and other corporate governance and regulatory matters, operations, personnel or products related to acquisitions we may make in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate such transactions, our business could be materially harmed. 

Many of our products rely on the Global Positioning System and other Global Satellite Navigation Systems (GNSS). 

The Global Positioning System (GPS) is a satellite-based navigation and positioning system consisting of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense. The Department of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the satellite signals. These satellites and their ground support systems are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. GPS satellites have a limited lifespan and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. While many of the original satellites deployed by the U.S. have been in operation for more than 20 years, the U.S. Space Force and Missile Systems Center continue to launch new satellites to replace retired and aged satellites. 

Despite ongoing efforts to repair, maintain and replace non-operational satellites, if a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable, there could be a substantial delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of operating satellites may impair the current utility of GPS and the growth of current and additional market opportunities. Furthermore, as GPS satellites and ground control segments are being modernized, software updates can cause problems. We depend on public access to open technical specifications in advance of GPS updates. 

GPS is operated by the U.S. Government, which is committed to maintenance and improvement of GPS; however, if the policy were to change, and commercial access to GPS was no longer supported by the U.S. Government, or if user fees were imposed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 

23 

Some of our products also use signals from Satellite Based Augmentation Systems (SBAS) that augment GPS, such as the U.S. Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS), Japanese MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS) and Quasi-Zenith Satellite System (QZSS), and European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS). Any curtailment of SBAS operating capability could result in decreased user capability for many of our aviation products, thereby impacting our markets. 

Some of our products also use satellite signals from Russia’s GLONASS, EGNOS’ aviation SoL service, the European Union Galileo system, and the Chinese BDS. National or European authorities may provide preferential access to signals to companies associated with their markets, including our competitors, which could harm our competitive position. Use of non-U.S. GNSS signals may also be subject to FCC waiver requirements and to restrictions based upon international trade or geopolitical considerations. If we are unable to develop timely and competitive commercial products using these systems, or obtain timely and equal access to service signals, it could result in lost revenue. 

Our business is subject to disruptions and uncertainties caused by geopolitical instability, war or terrorism. 

Acts of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Specifically, the threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause a redeployment of the satellites used in GPS or interruptions of the system. To the extent that such interruptions have an effect on sales of our products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 

A shut down of airspace or imposition of restrictions on general aviation would harm our business. The shutdown of airspace could cause reduced sales of our general aviation products and delays in the shipment of our products manufactured in our Taiwan manufacturing facilities to our global distribution facilities, thereby adversely affecting our ability to supply new and existing products to our dealers and distributors. 

We are dependent on the availability and unimpaired use of allocated bands within the radio frequency spectrum; our products may be subject to harmful interference from new or modified spectrum uses.  

Our Global Positioning System technology is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (SPS) provided by the U.S. Government’s GPS satellites. GPS operates in radio frequency bands that are globally allocated for radio navigation satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. Each country also has regulatory authority on how each band is used. In the United States, the FCC and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) share responsibility for radio frequency allocations and spectrum usage regulations.  

Our radar altimeter products for aircraft operate in a radio frequency band just above the C-band that has been allocated for 5G mobile wireless systems. There is a risk that 5G telecommunication systems operating in the vicinity of airports could cause harmful interference to radar altimeters resulting in inaccurate altimeter readings or complete altimeter failure. 

This or any other ITU or national reallocation of radio frequency spectrum, including frequency band segmentation or sharing of spectrum, or other modifications of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products and could have significant negative impacts on our business and our customers. 

24 

Risks Relating to Our Shares  

The volatility of our stock price could adversely affect investment in our common shares. 

The market price of our shares has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During 2021, the closing price of our shares ranged from a low of $114.86 to a high of $178.38. A variety of factors could cause the price of our shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: 

•

new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; 

•

general conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations in interest rates and global currency exchange rates; 

•

announcements of technological innovations; 

•

product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions; 

•

developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers;  

•

the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components, such as flash memory and liquid crystal displays, used in our products; 

•

quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results; 

•

changes in applicable tax laws and tax rates; 

•

developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; 

•

announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, our competitors, our suppliers or the markets in which we compete; 

•

research reports or opinions issued by securities analysts or brokerage houses related to Garmin, our competitors, our suppliers or our customers;  

•

any significant acts of terrorism against the United States, Taiwan or significant markets where we sell our products; and 

•

other factors as discussed in the previously listed risks. 

In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. 

Our officers and directors exert substantial influence over us.  

As of January 24, 2022, members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, together with their respective immediate family members and entities that may be deemed affiliates of or related to such persons or entities, beneficially owned approximately 20% of our outstanding shares. Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions and shareholder proposals. This level of ownership may have a significant effect in delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of Garmin and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other holders of our common shares. 

The rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law. 

The rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law and Garmin Ltd.’s articles of association. The rights of shareholders under Swiss law differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law allows our shareholders acting at a shareholders’ meeting to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors without approval of a shareholders’ meeting, but this authorization is limited to 50% of the existing registered share capital and must be renewed at a shareholders’ meeting at least every two years for it to continue to be available. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, including the exceptions described in our articles of association, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares and other securities. Swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares as the laws of some other jurisdictions. Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders certain corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority in some other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law provides that dividends and other distributions must be approved by shareholders at the general meeting of shareholders. These Swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility, and situations may arise where greater flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders. 

25 

We have limited capital reserves from which to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to Switzerland withholding tax. 

As of December 25, 2021, we had CHF 4,800 million of unappropriated capital contribution reserves available from which the Company may make dividend payments. At the time this reserve balance has been returned to shareholders, a Swiss federal withholding tax of 35% will generally be applicable to dividends paid. 

When the capital contribution reserves are fully utilized, the Swiss federal withholding tax must be withheld from the gross dividend distribution and paid to the Swiss federal Tax Administration. A holder that qualifies for benefits under a double tax treaty may be able to recover partial withholding tax. For example, a U.S holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting stock, or for a full refund in case of qualified pension funds). However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve a dividend out of capital contribution reserves, or that Swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future or that a change in Swiss law will not adversely affect us or our shareholders, in particular as a result of distributions out of capital contribution reserves becoming subject to additional corporate law or other restrictions. If we are unable to pay a dividend out of capital contribution reserves, we will not be able to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to Swiss withholding taxes. 

There is uncertainty as to our shareholders’ ability to enforce certain foreign civil liabilities in Switzerland and Taiwan.  

We are a Swiss company and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States, particularly in Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon us. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Switzerland or Taiwan would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in Switzerland or Taiwan against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. 

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 

None. 

26 

Item 2. Properties