PART I.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

International Paper Company (the "Company" or "International Paper", which may also be referred to as "we" or "us") is a global producer of renewable fiber-based packaging and pulp products with manufacturing operations in North America, Latin America, Europe and North Africa. We are a New York corporation, incorporated in 1941 as the successor to the New York corporation of the same name organized in 1898. You can learn more about us by visiting our website at www.internationalpaper.com.

In the United States, at December 31, 2021, the Company operated 24 pulp and packaging mills, 163 converting and packaging plants, 16 recycling plants and three bag facilities. Production facilities at December 31, 2021 in Canada, Europe, North Africa and Latin America included four pulp and packaging mills, 37 converting and packaging plants, and two recycling plants. We operate a printing and packaging products distribution business principally through six branches in Asia. Substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions.

For management and financial reporting purposes, our businesses are separated into two segments: Industrial Packaging and Global Cellulose Fibers. 

A description of these business segments can be found on pages 28 and 29 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company’s equity interest in Ilim S.A. ("Ilim") is also a separate reportable industry segment.

On October 1, 2021, we completed the previously announced spin-off of our Printing Papers business along with certain mixed-use coated paperboard and pulp businesses in North America, France and Russia into a standalone, publicly traded company, Sylvamo Corporation. See discussion on page 27 of Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Note 8 Divestitures and Impairments of Businesses on page 61 to 63 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

From 2017 through 2021, International Paper’s capital spending approximated $5.5 billion, excluding mergers and acquisitions. These expenditures reflect our continuing efforts to use our capital strategically 

to improve product quality and environmental performance, as well as lower costs, maintain reliability of operations and strategic capital for capacity expansion. Capital spending in 2021 was approximately $549 million and is expected to be approximately $1.1 billion in 2022. You can find more information about capital spending on pages 33 to 34 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Discussions of acquisitions can be found on page 32 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

You can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 28 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Our strategic framework, The IP Way Forward, ensures that our business strategy delivers sustainable outcomes for all of our stakeholders – employees, customers, suppliers, communities, governmental and non-governmental organizations and shareholders – for generations to come. Our approach to sustainability considers our entire value chain, from focusing on sourcing raw materials responsibly and working safely, to making renewable, recyclable products and providing a market for recovered products. To help inform and prioritize the focus of our sustainability strategy, we have engaged with internal and external stakeholders using a variety of methods, assessed key issues and associated risks and opportunities, and incorporated environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations into our processes. Additionally, in 2020, we established our Vision 2030 goals with the purpose of promoting healthy and abundant forests, thriving people and communities, sustainable operations and renewable solutions. Certain of the goals are discussed in more detail below. 

Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information in parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.internationalpaper.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our internet address is included herein as an inactive textual reference only. The information contained on or connected to our 

1
website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the SEC.

HUMAN CAPITAL 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2021, we have approximately 38,200 employees, nearly 31,000 of whom are located in the United States. The number of our employees as of December 31, 2021, decreased significantly in comparison to December 31, 2020, as a result of the spin-off of Sylvamo Corporation which we completed on October 1, 2021. Of our U.S. employees, approximately 21,700 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 13,500 employees. Approximately 10,200 of this number are represented by the United Steelworkers union ("USW").

International Paper, the USW, and several other unions have entered into two master agreements covering various U.S. mills and converting facilities. These master agreements cover several specific items, including wages, select benefit programs, successorship, employment security, and health and safety. Individual facilities continue to have local agreements for other subjects not covered by the master agreements. If local facility agreements are not successfully negotiated at the time of expiration, under the terms of the master agreements the local contracts will automatically renew with the same terms in effect. The master agreements cover the majority of our union represented mills and converting facilities. In addition, International Paper is party to a master agreement with District Council 2, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, covering additional converting facilities. 

SAFETY

The safety of our employees remains the primary focus of our leaders. Our goal is to create a 100% injury-free workplace for our employees and contractors. To accomplish this goal, we focus on the IP Way of doing things - we do the right things, in the right ways, for the right reasons, all of the time. Our stated Vision 2030 Goal is to achieve zero serious injuries for employees and contractors. In 2021, 94% of our sites operated without a serious injury to our employees. 

Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we have remained focused on protecting the health and safety of our employees while meeting the needs of our customers. Most of our manufacturing and converting 

facilities were deemed essential and have remained open and operational during the pandemic, and all of our manufacturing and converting facilities are currently operational. The health and safety of our employees and contractors is our most important responsibility as we manage through the COVID-19 pandemic. Each IP facility has a Pandemic Preparedness Plan, including health and safety layers of protection and other measures generally aligned with recommendations of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the World Health Organization and/or local health authority guidance. In addition, we have symptom, exposure and diagnosis reporting policies, and isolation, quarantine and return to work protocols. We have encouraged vaccination and have sponsored on-site vaccination events. We are continuously responding to the changing conditions created by the pandemic and evolving regulations and remain focused on our priority of employee health and safety. 

HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

The attraction, retention and development of our employees is critical to our success. We accomplish this, in part, by developing the capabilities of our team members through our continuous learning, development and performance management programs. One such program is our REACH (Recruit, Engage, Align College Hires) program through which we recruit and develop early-career engineers and safety professionals for our U.S. mills, preparing them to become future leaders. We invest in the growth and development of our employees by providing a multi-dimensional approach to learning that empowers, intellectually grows, and professionally develops our employees. Our HR Talent Management Team hosts Global New Employee Orientation for all employees. In 2021, 943 new hourly operations and maintenance employees at our mills participated in new hire integration training. We provide continuing education courses that are relevant to our industry and job functions within the Company, including both instructor lead and online training through our MyLearning system. In addition, we have created learning paths for specific positions that are designed to encourage an employee’s advancement and growth within our organization, such as our Global Manufacturing Training Initiative, which provides training services to hourly operations and maintenance employees in our mills in a standardized and structured manner. The IP Leadership Institute offers courses for individual contributors, people leaders and teams. We also offer a peer mentor program and leadership and customer service training to support and develop our employees. Moreover, we offer tuition reimbursement programs for employees who desire to receive additional outside education to prepare for other positions at the 

2
Company, as well as student loan assistance to help employees repay qualified student loans. These resources provide employees with the skills and support they need to achieve their career goals, build management skills and become leaders within our Company.

The labor market for both hourly and salaried workers has recently been very competitive. For additional information regarding risks related to the current competitive labor market, see Item 1A. Risk Factors – WE OPERATE IN A CHALLENGING MARKET FOR TALENT AND MAY FAIL TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL, INCLUDING KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL.

COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS

We view compensation and benefits as part of how we attract, engage and retain our talented workforce. We do so by rewarding performance while ensuring competitive compensation in our local markets around the world. We continually evaluate our compensation and benefits so that we offer optimal compensation programs and remain a leading employer of choice in the areas in which we operate. 

DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION

The Company believes in an inclusive workforce, where diverse backgrounds are represented, engaged and empowered to inspire innovative ideas and decisions. Our stated Vision 2030 goal is to achieve 30% overall representation of women and 50% women in salaried positions, 30% racial and ethnic minority representation in U.S. salaried positions, and to implement regional diversity plans by 2030. To foster a more diverse and inclusive culture, the Company is focused on promoting a culture of diversity and inclusion that leverages the talents of all employees, and implementing practices that attract, recruit and retain diverse top talent. The Company supports employee-led networking groups that are open to all employees and provide a forum to communicate and exchange ideas, build a network of relationships across the Company, and pursue personal and professional development, such as the Women in International Paper Employee Networking Circle (Women in IP), African American Employee Networking Circle (IPMOVE), LGBTQ Employee Networking Circle (IPride) and a Veterans Employee Networking Circle (IPVets). The Company has also been recognized for the diversity of its board of directors. We also conduct diversity and inclusion training and host inclusion forums, mentoring boards and team-level courses which further our goals of diversity and inclusion. 

We have a global workforce and have implemented programs around the globe to create diverse, inclusive workplaces. We have increased representation of women engineers in our REACH program by 39% with the Class of 2022, compared with the Class of 2021. Additionally, our overall full-time diversity hiring for the REACH Class 2022 is 52%. Moreover, we have developed a Diversity Acquisition Framework for U.S. Colleges to guide our enterprise diversity efforts as we work towards accomplishing our Vision 2030 goals. 

The make-up of our Board of Directors reflects our efforts to seek qualified Board candidates with diverse backgrounds including, but not limited to, such factors as race, gender, and ethnicity. The current composition of our Board, as noted below, reflects those efforts and the importance of diversity to the Board: 

•27% women, 27% ethnically diverse,18% African-American 

•50% of the Board’s standing committees are chaired by women

•Two women directors and two African-American directors have joined in the last four years

CITIZENSHIP

We encourage our employees to support the communities in which they live and in which the Company operates. Our citizenship efforts extend across the globe and support social and educational needs. To that end, in 2021 we invested more than $23 million to address critical needs in the communities in which we work and live. Our Vision 2030 goal is to strengthen the resilience of our communities and improve the lives of 100 million people in our communities, including through supporting education, reducing hunger, promoting health and wellness and supporting disaster relief. We are proud to have been named among the world’s most ethical companies by Ethisphere for 15 consecutive years.

COMPETITION AND COSTS

The pulp and packaging sectors are large and fragmented, and the areas into which we sell our principal products are very competitive. Our products compete with similar products produced by other forest products companies. We also compete, in some instances, with companies in other industries and against substitutes for wood-fiber products.

Many factors influence the Company’s competitive position, including price, cost, product quality and services. You can find more information about the 

3
impact of these factors on operating profits on pages 22 through 31 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find information about the Company’s manufacturing capacities on page A-4 of Appendix II.

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

The Company sells products directly to end users and converters, as well as through agents, resellers and distributors. 

DESCRIPTION OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

The Company’s principal products are described on pages 28 and 29 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT

Sales volumes of major products for 2021, 2020 and 2019 were as follows:

SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT (a)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes third-party and inter-segment sales and excludes sales of equity investees. Excludes volumes of businesses conveyed to Sylvamo Corporation.

(b)Volumes for corrugated box sales reflect consumed tons sold ("CTS"). Board sales by these businesses reflect invoiced tons.

(c) Includes North American volumes and internal sales to mills.

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

As responsible stewards of people and communities, natural resources and capital, stewardship is one of the Company's core values. Its Vision 2030 Goals provide a framework to build a better future for people, the planet and the company in the areas of healthy and abundant forests, thriving people and communities, sustainable operations and renewable solutions. Through these efforts and more, the Company tackles the toughest issues in the value chain to improve its environmental footprint and promote the long-term sustainability of natural capital. 

As part of its business, the Company is subject to extensive and increasingly stringent federal, state local, and international laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. For example, Company manufacturing processes involve discharges to water, air emissions, water intake and waste handling and disposal activities, all of which are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations, along with requirements of environmental 

permits or analogous authorizations issued by various governmental authorities. In addition, new environmental laws or regulations impacting our facilities around the world are routinely passed or proposed. Our continuing objectives include: (1) controlling emissions and discharges from our facilities to avoid adverse impacts on the environment, and (2) maintaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The Company spent approximately $34 million in 2021 for capital projects to control environmental releases into the air and water, and to assure environmentally sound management and disposal of waste. We expect to spend $37 million in 2022 for environmental capital projects. Capital expenditures on environmental projects for 2023 and 2024, respectively, are anticipated to be approximately $45 million and $35 million. It is possible that our capital expenditure assumptions and project completion dates may change, and our projections are subject to change due to items such as the finalization of ongoing engineering projects or changes in environmental laws and regulations. 

4
The Company has completed capital projects to meet the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's ("EPA") maximum achievable control technology ("MACT") and risk and technology review ("RTR") regulations that require owners of specified pulp and paper process equipment and boilers to meet new air emissions standards for certain substances. As portions of these MACT and RTR regulations have been remanded to EPA for further consideration it is not clear at this time what, if any, additional capital project expenditures might result from resolution of the open issues.

The Company has been named as a potentially responsible party ("PRP") in environmental remediation actions under various federal and state laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"). Many of these proceedings involve the cleanup of hazardous substances at large commercial landfills that received waste from many different sources. While joint and several liability is authorized under CERCLA and equivalent state laws, as a practical matter, liability for CERCLA cleanups is typically allocated among the many PRPs. There are other remediation costs typically associated with the cleanup of hazardous substances at the Company’s current, closed or formerly-owned facilities, and recorded as liabilities on the balance sheet. For additional information regarding certain remediation actions, see Note 14 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data on pages 70 through 74. For additional information regarding risks associated with environmental matters, see Item 1A. Risk Factors – WE ARE SUBJECT TO A WIDE VARIETY OF LAWS, REGULATIONS AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL REQUIREMENTS THAT MAY CHANGE IN SIGNIFICANT WAYS, AND THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH SUCH REQUIREMENTS COULD IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 

CLIMATE CHANGE

The Company recognizes the impacts of climate change on people and our planet. In order to manage climate-related risks, we are taking actions throughout our value chain to help advance a low-carbon economy. We also intend to align our annual sustainability reporting with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) beginning with the 2022 reporting cycle (based upon data from 2021).

We transform renewable resources into recyclable products that people depend on every day. This cycle begins with sourcing renewable fiber from responsibly 

managed forests and recycled raw materials to create our products. We then use a circular manufacturing process that makes the most of resources and byproducts, while reducing the environmental impacts of our operations. At the end of use, the majority of our low-carbon products are recycled into new products at a higher rate than any other base material. We work to advance the shift to a low-carbon, circular economy by designing products that are 100% reusable, recyclable or compostable. 

Through improvements in operations, equipment, energy efficiency and fuel diversity, we have achieved significant company-wide reductions in Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. For example, we reduced our GHG emissions by approximately 20% between 2010 and 2020. Moreover, as part of our Vision 2030 goals, we have targeted incremental reductions of 35% in our Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in comparison to 2019 levels. In December 2021, the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) approved these targets as consistent with levels required to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement, an agreement signed among over 170 countries, which became effective in November 2016 and to which the United States formally rejoined in February 2021. We intend to continue to evaluate and implement projects as we pursue this Vision 2030 GHG goal. This includes ongoing energy efficiency efforts and capital projects to phase out our most carbon intensive fuel sources (Scope 1) as well as developing GHG reduction strategies for our energy sourcing (Scope 2) and broader supply chain footprint (Scope 3). 

We use carbon-neutral biomass and manufacturing residuals (rather than fossil fuels) to generate a majority of the manufacturing energy at our mills. We believe our efforts to advance sustainable forest management and restore forest landscapes are an important lever for mitigating climate change through carbon storage in forests. 

INTERNATIONAL EFFORTS

The Paris Agreement went into effect in November 2016 and compels international efforts and voluntary commitments toward reducing the emissions of GHGs. Consistent with this objective, participating countries aim to balance GHG emissions generation and sequestration in the second half of this century or, in effect, achieve net-zero global GHG emissions. 

To assist member countries in meeting GHG reduction obligations, the EU operates an Emissions Trading System ("EU ETS"). Our operations in the EU experience indirect impacts of the EU ETS through purchased power pricing. Neither the direct nor indirect impacts of the EU ETS have been material to 

5
the Company, but they could be material to the Company in the future depending on how the Paris Agreement's non-binding commitments or allocation of and market prices for GHG credits under existing rules evolve over the coming years.

U.S. EFFORTS, INCLUDING STATE, REGIONAL AND LOCAL MEASURES

Responses to climate change may result in regulatory risks as new laws and regulations aimed at reducing GHG emissions come into effect. The EPA manages regulations to: (i) control GHGs from mobile sources by adopting transportation fuel efficiency standards; (ii) control GHG emissions from new Electric Generating Units ("EGUs"); (iii) control emissions from new oil and gas processing operations and (iv) require reporting of GHGs from sources of GHGs greater than 25,000 tons per year. 

Several U.S. states, including states in which we operate facilities, have enacted or are considering legal measures to require the reduction of emissions of GHGs by companies and public utilities. California, New York and Virginia have already enacted such programs, although these regulations have not had, and are not expected to have a material impact on the Company. We monitor proposed programs in other states as well; however, it is unclear what impacts, if any, future state-level GHG rules will have on the Company’s operations. 

SUMMARY

Regulation related to GHGs and climate change continues to evolve in the areas of the world in which we do business. However, while it is likely that there will be increased governmental action regarding GHGs and climate change in the future, it is unclear what actions will be taken and when such actions will occur and at this time it is not reasonably possible to estimate the Company’s costs of compliance with rules that have not yet been adopted or implemented and may not be adopted or implemented in the future. In addition to possible direct impacts, future legislation and regulation could have indirect impacts on the Company, such as higher prices for transportation, energy and other inputs, as well as more protracted air permitting processes, causing delays and higher costs to implement capital projects. The Company has controls and procedures in place to track GHG emissions from our facilities, as well as to stay informed about developments concerning possible climate-related laws, regulations, accords, and policies in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions where we operate. We regularly assess whether such developments may have a material effect on the Company, its operations or financial condition, and whether we have any related disclosure obligations.

Moreover, compliance with legal requirements related to GHGs and/or climate change which are currently in effect or may be enacted in the future may require future expenditures to meet GHG emission reduction obligations. These obligations may include carbon taxes, the requirement to purchase GHG credits or the need to acquire carbon offsets. We may also incur significant expenditures in relation to our efforts to meet our internal targets or goals with respect to GHGs and climate change, including our Vision 2030 goal on GHGs as set forth above. Furthermore, in connection with complying with legal requirements and/or our efforts to meet our internal targets and goals, we have made and expect to continue to make capital and other investments to displace traditional fossil fuels, such as fuel oil and coal, with lower carbon alternatives, such as biomass and natural gas. Currently, these efforts and obligations have not materially impacted the Company but such efforts and obligations may have a material impact on the Company in the future. 

We believe global citizenship is a key element of corporate governance promoted by our Board of Directors and senior management. The Public Policy and Environment Committee of the Board has overall responsibility for global citizenship at the Company. This Committee reviews and assesses environmental sustainability (including climate change), public policy, legal, health and safety and technology issues. The Company’s Governance Committee also has oversight of certain public policy and sustainability matters.

For additional information regarding risks associated with climate change, see Item 1A. Risk Factors – WE ARE SUBJECT TO PHYSICAL, OPERATIONAL, TRANSITIONAL AND FINANCIAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CLIMATE CHANGE AND GLOBAL, REGIONAL AND LOCAL WEATHER CONDITIONS AS WELL AS BY LEGAL, REGULATORY AND MARKET RESPONSES TO CLIMATE CHANGE. 

Additional information regarding climate change and the Company is available in our 2020 Global Citizenship Report, and will be available in our upcoming 2021 Global Citizenship Report to be filed later in 2022, both of which can or will be found on our website at www.internationalpaper.com. The information contained in such reports is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the SEC. Any targets or goals with respect to ESG matters discussed herein or in our global citizenship reports as noted above are forward-looking statements and may be aspirational. These targets or goals are not guarantees of future results, and involve assumptions 

6
and known and unknown risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control.

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Mark S. Sutton, 60, chairman (since January 1, 2015) & chief executive officer (since November 1, 2014). Mr. Sutton previously served as president & chief operating officer from June 1, 2014 to October 31, 2014, senior vice president - industrial packaging from November 2011 to May 31, 2014, senior vice president - printing and communications papers of the Americas from 2010 until 2011, senior vice president - supply chain from 2008 to 2009, vice president - supply chain from 2007 until 2008, and vice president - strategic planning from 2005 until 2007. Mr. Sutton joined International Paper in 1984. Mr. Sutton serves on the board of directors of The Kroger Company. He is a member of The Business Council and the Business Roundtable and serves on the American Forest & Paper Association board of directors and the international advisory board of the Moscow School of Management - Skolkovo. He also serves on the board of directors for Memphis Tomorrow and board of governors for New Memphis Institute. Mr. Sutton has been a director since June 1, 2014.

Clay R. Ellis, 51, senior vice president - enterprise operational excellence since December 2019. Mr. Ellis previously served as vice president - manufacturing, global cellulose fibers from 2016 to December 2019, vice president of pulp from 2014 to 2016, and vice president manufacturing, North American papers from 2012 to 2014. Mr. Ellis joined International Paper in 1992.

W. Thomas Hamic, 56, senior vice president - global cellulose fibers and enterprise commercial excellence since September 2020. Mr. Hamic previously served as senior vice president - containerboard and enterprise commercial excellence from December 2019 until September 2020. Mr. Hamic has also previously served as vice president and general manager - containerboard & recycling, North American container from June 2015 until December 2019. Mr. Hamic became vice president and general manager of the south area in container of the Americas in 2009, and he was appointed to the role of vice president, industrial packaging group’s finance & strategy in 2010. Mr. Hamic joined International Paper in 1991.

Timothy S. Nicholls, 60, senior vice president & chief financial officer since June 2018. Mr. Nicholls previously served as senior vice president - industrial packaging the Americas from January 2017 through June 2018, senior vice president - industrial packaging from November 2014 through 

December 2016, senior vice president - printing and communications papers of the Americas from November 2011 through October 2014, senior vice president and chief financial officer from 2007 until 2011, vice president and executive project leader of IP Europe during 2007, and vice president and chief financial officer - IP Europe from 2005 until 2007. Mr. Nicholls joined International Paper in 1999.

Thomas J. Plath, 58, senior vice president - human resources and global citizenship since March 1, 2017. Mr. Plath previously served as vice president - human resources, global businesses from November 2014 through February 2017, and vice president - HR manufacturing, technology, EH&S and global supply chain from April 2013 to November 2014. Mr. Plath joined International Paper in 1991.

James P. Royalty, Jr., 52, senior vice president and president, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Russia since December 2019. Most recently, Mr. Royalty served as vice president, corporate development and disruptive technologies from September 2018 until December 2019, vice president, strategic projects from 2017 until 2018, vice president, investor relations from 2013 until 2017, vice president and general manager, container the Americas in 2008 to 2013. Mr. Royalty joined International Paper in 1991.

Sharon R. Ryan, 62, senior vice president, general counsel & corporate secretary since November 2011. Ms. Ryan previously served as vice president, acting general counsel & corporate secretary from May 2011 until November 2011, vice president from March 2011 until May 2011, associate general counsel, chief ethics and compliance officer from 2009 until 2011, and associate general counsel from 2006 until 2009. Ms. Ryan joined International Paper in 1988.

Gregory T. Wanta, 56, senior vice president - North American container since December 2016. Mr. Wanta has served in a variety of roles of increasing responsibility in manufacturing and commercial leadership roles in specialty papers, coated paperboard, printing papers, foodservice and industrial packaging, including vice president, central region, Container the Americas, from January 2012 through October 2016. Mr. Wanta joined International Paper in 1991.

RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials essential to our businesses include wood fiber, purchased in the form of pulpwood, wood chips and old corrugated containers (OCC), and certain chemicals, including caustic soda, starch and 

7
adhesives. For further information concerning fiber supply purchase agreements, see page 34.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical in nature may be considered “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “expects”, “anticipates”, “believes”, “estimates” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and reflect management’s current views and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Factors which could cause actual results to differ include but are not limited to: (i) developments related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the severity, magnitude and duration of the pandemic, the spread of new variants of the virus (including potential variants that may be more resistant to currently available vaccines and treatment), the effectiveness, acceptance and availability of vaccines, booster shots and medications, and associated levels of vaccination impacts of actions that may be taken by governmental authorities and private businesses in response to the pandemic, including vaccine mandates, impacts of the pandemic on global and domestic economic conditions, including with respect to commercial activity, our customers and business partners, consumer preferences and demand, supply chain shortages and disruptions, inflationary pressures and disruptions in the credit, capital or financial markets; (ii) risks with respect to climate change and global, regional, and local weather conditions, as well as risks related to our ability to meet targets and goals with respect to climate change and the emission of GHGs and other environmental, social and governance matters, (iii) the level of our indebtedness and changes in interest rates; (iv) industry conditions, including but not limited to changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources, the availability of labor and competitive labor market conditions, competition we face, cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences, demand and pricing for our products (including any such changes resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic); (v) domestic and global economic conditions and political changes, changes in currency exchange rates, trade protectionist policies, downgrades in our credit ratings, and/or the credit ratings of banks issuing certain letters of credit, issued by recognized credit rating organizations; (vi) the amount of our future pension funding obligations, and pension and healthcare costs; (vii) unanticipated expenditures or 

other adverse developments related to compliance with existing and new environmental, tax, labor and employment, privacy, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, and other U.S. and non-U.S. governmental laws and regulations (including new legal requirements arising from the COVID-19 pandemic); (viii) any material disruption at any of our manufacturing facilities or other adverse impact on our operations due to severe weather, natural disasters, climate change or other causes; (ix) risks inherent in conducting business through joint ventures; (x) our ability to achieve the benefits expected from, and other risks associated with, acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, spin-offs and other corporate transactions, (xi) cybersecurity and information technology risks; (xii) loss contingencies and pending, threatened or future litigation, including with respect to environmental related matters; (xiii) our exposure to claims from Sylvamo Corporation under our agreements with Sylvamo Corporation; (xiv) our failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the spin-off of Sylvamo Corporation and the qualification of such spin-off as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes; and (xv) our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward-looking statements can be found in our press releases and SEC filings. In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that we currently believe to be immaterial could affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS