ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. To mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency hedges. All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position as of June 30, 2022. Actual results may differ materially.

As of June 30, 2022, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $1.01 billion. These securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. If market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 100 bps from levels as of June 30, 2022, the fair value of the portfolio would have declined by $9.4 million.

The fair market value of long-term fixed interest rate notes is subject to interest rate risk. The fair market value of fixed interest rate notes will increase as market interest rates fall and decrease as market interest rates rise. As of June 30, 2022, the fair value and the book value of our Senior Notes due in various fiscal years ranging from 2025 to 2063 were $6.39 billion and $6.45 billion, respectively. Since February 2020, the interest rates on our Senior Notes have not been subject to credit-rating based rate adjustments.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, we replaced the Prior Credit Agreement and Prior Revolving Credit Facility with a renegotiated Credit Agreement and renegotiated unsecured Revolving Credit Facility. Subject to the terms of Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility allows us to borrow up to $1.50 billion, has a maturity date of June 8, 2027 with two one-year extension options, and may be increased by an amount up to $250.0 million in the aggregate. As of June 30, 2022, we had an aggregate principal amount of $275.0 million outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. Each Term SOFR Loan will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Adjusted Term SOFR rate, which is equal to the applicable Term SOFR rate plus 10 bps that shall not be less than zero, plus a spread ranging from 75 bps to 125 bps, as determined by the Company's credit ratings at the time. The fair value of the borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility is subject to interest rate and credit risk due to the timing of the rate resets and changes in the market's assessment of risk of default, respectively. Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, we are also obligated to pay an annual commitment fee on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility at a rate that ranges from 4.5 bps to 12.5 bps, depending upon the Company's then prevailing credit rating. As of June 30, 2022 the annual commitment fee was 9 bps. At June 30, 2022, if our credit ratings were downgraded to be below investment grade, the maximum potential increase to our annual commitment fee for the Revolving Credit Facility, using the highest range of the ranges discussed above, is estimated to be approximately $1 million. 

Our equity investment in a publicly traded company is subject to market price risk, which we typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate through hedging activities. As of June 30, 2022, the fair value of our investment in the marketable equity security, which began publicly trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange on April 5, 2021, was $11.0 million. Assuming a decline of 50% in market prices, the aggregate value of our investment in the marketable equity security could decrease by approximately $6 million, based on the value as of June 30, 2022.

See Note 5 “Marketable Securities” to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8; “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7; and Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of recent market events that may affect the value of the investments in our portfolio that we held as of June 30, 2022.

As of June 30, 2022, we had net forward and option contracts to purchase $58.2 million in foreign currency in order to hedge certain currency exposures (see Note 17 “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details). If we had entered into these contracts on June 30, 2022, the U.S. dollar equivalent would have been $64.2 million. A 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $94.2 million. However, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount. Accordingly, we believe that, as a result of the hedging of certain of our foreign currency exposure, changes in most relevant foreign currency exchange rates should have no material impact on our results of operations or cash flows.

53
ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA