Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

We are exposed to certain market risks during the normal course of our business, such as risk arising from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as well as fluctuations in interest rates. In order to manage these risks, we employ certain strategies to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to manage our foreign currency exposure to the fluctuations of certain foreign currencies. The use of these instruments primarily helps to manage our exposure to our foreign purchase commitments and better control our product costs. We do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.

59
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

Forward Foreign Currency Exchange Contracts

We are exposed to risks on certain purchase commitments to foreign suppliers based on the value of our purchasing subsidiaries’ local currency relative to the currency requirement of the supplier on the date of the commitment. As such, we enter into forward currency exchange contracts that generally mature in 12 months or less and are consistent with the related purchase commitments, to manage our exposure to the changes in the value of the Euro and the Canadian dollar. These contracts are recorded at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets as either an asset or liability, and are derivative contracts to hedge cash flow risks. Certain of these contracts are designated as hedges for hedge accounting purposes, while other contracts are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes. Accordingly, the changes in the fair value of the majority of these contracts at the balance sheet date are recorded in our equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, and upon maturity (settlement) are recorded in, or reclassified into, our cost of goods sold or operating expenses, in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss), as applicable to the transactions for which the forward currency exchange contracts were established.

We perform a sensitivity analysis on our forward currency contracts, both designated and not designated as hedges for accounting purposes, to determine the effects of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For this sensitivity analysis, we assume a hypothetical change in United States dollar against foreign exchange rates. Based on all foreign currency exchange contracts outstanding as of April 2, 2022, a 10% appreciation or devaluation of the United States dollar compared to the level of foreign currency exchange rates for currencies under contract as of April 2, 2022, would result in a potential net increase and decrease upon settlement of approximately $15 million in the fair value of these contracts.

Net Investment Hedges

We are exposed to adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements related to our net investment hedges. As of April 2, 2022, we have multiple fixed to fixed cross-currency swap agreements with aggregate notional amounts of $4 billion to hedge our net investment in Euro-denominated subsidiaries and $194 million to hedge our net investments in Japanese Yen-denominated subsidiaries against future volatility in the exchange rates between the United States dollar and this currency. Under the term of these contracts, we will exchange the semi-annual fixed rate payments on United States denominated debt for fixed rate payments of 0% to 3.565% in Euros and 0% to 3.408% in Japanese Yen. Based on the net investment hedges outstanding as of April 2, 2022, a 10% appreciation or devaluation of the United States dollar compared to the level of foreign currency exchange rates for currencies under contract as of April 2, 2022, would result in a potential net increase or decrease upon settlement of approximately $432 million in the fair value of this contract, which include mandatory early termination dates between August 2025 and February 2026, while the remaining contracts have maturity dates between March 2024 and February 2051. In addition, certain other contracts are supported by a credit support annex (“CSA”) which provides for collateral exchange with the earliest effective date being November 2023. If the outstanding position of a contract exceeds a certain threshold governed by the aforementioned CSA’s, either party is required to post cash collateral.

Interest Rate Risk

We are exposed to interest rate risk in relation to borrowings outstanding under our 2018 Term Loan Facility, our Credit Facility, our Hong Kong Credit Facility, our Japan Credit Facility and our Versace Credit Facilities. Our 2018 Term Loan Facility carries interest at a rate that is based on LIBOR. Our 2018 Credit Facility carries interest rates that are tied to LIBOR and the prime rate, among other institutional lending rates (depending on the particular origination of borrowing), as further described in Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Our Hong Kong Credit Facility carries interest at a rate that is tied to the Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rate. Our China Credit Facility carries interest at a rate that is tied to the People’s Bank of China’s Benchmark lending rate. Our Japan Credit Facility carries interest at a rate posted by the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group. Our Versace Credit Facility carries interest at a rate set by the bank on the date of borrowing that is tied to the European Central Bank. Therefore, our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) and cash flows are exposed to changes in those interest rates. At April 2, 2022, we had $175 million borrowings outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility, $495 million, net of debt issuance costs, outstanding under our 2018 Term Loan Facility and no borrowings outstanding under our Versace Credit Facilities. At March 27, 2021, we had no borrowings outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility, $865 million, net of debt issuance costs, outstanding under our 2018 Term Loan Facility and no borrowings outstanding under our Versace Credit Facility. These balances are not indicative of future balances that may be outstanding under our revolving credit facilities that may be subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Any increases in the applicable interest rate(s) would cause an increase to the interest expense relative to any outstanding balance at that date.

60
Credit Risk

As of April 2, 2022, our $450 million Senior Notes, due in 2024, bear interest at a fixed rate equal to 4.500% per year, payable semi-annually. Our Senior Notes interest rate payable may be subject to adjustments from time to time if either Moody’s or S&P (or a substitute rating agency), downgrades (or downgrades and subsequently upgrades) the credit rating assigned to the Senior Notes. See Note 20 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data