PART I 

Item 1. Business 

Kohl’s Corporation (the “Company," “Kohl’s,” "we," "our," or "us") was organized in 1988 and is a Wisconsin corporation. As of January 29, 2022, we operated 1,165 Kohl's stores and a website (www.Kohls.com). Our Kohl's stores and website sell moderately-priced private and national brand apparel, footwear, accessories, beauty, and home products. Our Kohl's stores generally carry a consistent merchandise assortment with some differences attributable to local preferences, store size, and Sephora. Our website includes merchandise which is available in our stores, as well as merchandise that is available only online.  

Our merchandise mix includes both national brands and private brands that are available only at Kohl's. Our private portfolio includes well-known established brands such as Apt. 9, Croft & Barrow, Jumping Beans, SO, and Sonoma Goods for Life, and exclusive brands that are developed and marketed through agreements with nationally-recognized brands such as Food Network, LC Lauren Conrad, Nine West, and Simply Vera Vera Wang. Compared to private brands, national brands generally have higher selling prices, but lower gross margins. 

The following tables summarize our net sales penetration by line of business and brand type over the last three years: 

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31st each year. Unless otherwise stated, references to years in this report relate to fiscal years rather than to calendar years. The following fiscal periods are presented in this report: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For discussion of our financial results, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 

3 

Table of Contents 

Distribution 

We receive substantially all of our merchandise at our nine retail distribution centers and six e-fulfillment centers. A small amount of our merchandise is delivered directly to the stores by vendors or their distributors. The retail distribution centers, which are strategically located throughout the United States, ship merchandise to each store by contract carrier several times a week. Digital sales may be picked up in our stores or are shipped from a Kohl’s e-fulfillment center, retail distribution center or store, third-party fulfillment center, or directly by a third-party vendor. 

See Item 2, “Properties,” for additional information about our distribution and e-fulfillment centers. 

Human Capital 

At Kohl’s, our purpose is to inspire and empower families to lead fulfilled lives. We are committed to creating a culture where everyone belongs, where diversity and inclusion drive innovation and business results, while enabling associates and customers to be their authentic selves every single day. 

Employee Count 

During 2021, we employed an average of approximately 99,000 associates, which included approximately 35,000 full-time and 64,000 part-time associates. The number of associates varies during the year, peaking during the back-to-school and holiday seasons. None of our associates are represented by a collective bargaining unit. We believe we maintain positive relations with our associates. 

Health, Safety, and Wellness 

We lead initiatives that ensure the way we communicate, work, and develop our product enables our customers and associates to shop, work, and engage in a safe environment. We have a dedicated team responsible to prepare our business for crisis events, including natural disasters and other unplanned disruptions like those brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. To keep a healthy workforce, we maintain an advocacy program that provides associates with 24/7 access to medical professionals following a work accident. We have enhanced the way our stores are built and operated in an effort to create a safer shopping experience for our associates and customers. We continue to pursue innovative ways to educate our teams on safety. Associates at our stores, distribution and e-fulfillment centers receive specialized training to enhance our safety culture and reduce associate accidents. 

Diversity and Inclusion 

At Kohl’s, we are committed to our Diversity & Inclusion ("D&I") strategy focused on Our People, Our Customers and Our Community, and our mission to empower more families through equity and D&I. This strategy accelerates how we are embedding D&I throughout our business by being intentional about our programs and practices, and holding ourselves accountable with measurable goals and results. The work is rooted in our Core Beliefs: 

•

We believe embedding diversity, equity, and inclusion in everything we do requires an ongoing journey of listening, learning and taking action. 

•

We believe that human and civil rights, anti-racism, and our commitment to nondiscrimination in any form are critical to upholding our core values, ethical practices, and Code of Ethics. 

•

We believe we can create lasting change by addressing inequities to positively affect our people, customers, and community.  

•

We believe we are accountable for inspiring empathy, creating an environment of belonging, and identifying and addressing bias. 

We are committed to creating an environment where diversity is valued at all levels, everyone feels a sense of equity and where inclusion is evident across our business. We strive to be purposeful in attracting, growing, and engaging  

4 

Table of Contents 

more diverse talent while giving associates equitable opportunities for career growth. We administer our recruiting efforts with a focus on education, training, and sourcing strategies for increasing our diverse talent pipeline. Our diversity and inclusion strategy is embedded into our onboarding for all associates. We endeavor to drive economic prosperity through conversations, programs, and partnerships that improve quality of life.  

Diversity and Inclusion efforts need to start at the top. In 2019, we joined the 1% club — the handful of Fortune 500 firms where both the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are women. We are focused on growing diverse leaders by engaging top and emerging talent in internal and external professional development offerings. Diversity is embedded within our organizational planning for the future, with diversity being an area of consideration during succession planning. We are working to develop inclusive leaders through programs aimed at building awareness and encouraging advocacy.  

In the space of continuous development and engagement, we have eight Business Resource Groups ("BRGs") with nearly 19,000 members focused on driving the business by recognizing and championing D&I in its multiple forms. BRG’s continue to be leveraged and seen as the “culture keepers” to support honest and reflective dialogue and accelerate the company forward in inclusion and belonging. The BRG’s are also positioned to provide key development and growth opportunities for associates to build their cache of skills and connections while bringing their authentic selves to their work and the organization. The BRGs serve as champions for enhancing our diversity and inclusion efforts across our business and make an impact across the organization with a focus on our three diversity and inclusion pillars. We work to provide learning opportunities for our leaders and associates to build a more diverse and inclusive workforce and engage associates on how that creates a competitive advantage. In 2021, we rolled out Inclusive Leadership training to the full organization that included a range of experiential and online learner-led education. As part of our commitment to overcoming racial injustice and fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace, the learning experience was designed to help associates understand and manage blind spots and build stronger connections with colleagues, customers, partners, and communities. Kohl’s defines inclusive leadership as fostering a culture where everyone feels welcome, valued, and heard, and respecting and considering the unique needs, experiences, and perspectives of our associates to grow our business together. 

Compensation and Benefits 

As the makeup and needs of the modern family evolve, our products, services, and programs must also transform. We provide competitive compensation and benefits programs for our employees and are committed to providing fair and equitable compensation to our employees. All eligible associates receive a 100% match (up to 5% of pay) in Kohl’s 401(k) Savings Plan after one year of employment. Full-time associates are offered medical, dental, vision, prescription drug, disability and life insurance coverage, paid time off, and a merchandise discount. Part-time associates are offered dental, vision, supplementary life insurance, and a merchandise discount. We empower our associates’ work-life balance by giving them access to a full range of professional resources. 

Training and Development 

Behind our success are great teams of talented individuals who embody our values. We actively attract, engage, and hire talent who will drive our purpose. Our talent management team brings together performance management, talent assessment, succession planning, and career planning. This team provides tools, resources, and best practices to ensure we have the right talent in the right roles at the right time. We invest in executive coaching, assessments, internal programs, external courses, peer networks, and more. 

From initial onboarding to high potential leadership development, we believe in training and career growth for our associates. We make efforts to stay ahead of the competition by leaning into new technologies and encouraging our associates to keep their skills fresh through our learning management system, which includes more than 1,000 online and in-person courses. We are committed to the highest standards of integrity and maintain a Code of Ethics to guide  

5 

Table of Contents 

ethical decision-making for associates. We require associates to take annual ethics training, which is refreshed each year to cover relevant topics. 

Competition 

The retail industry is highly competitive. Management considers style, quality, price, and convenience to be the most significant competitive factors in the industry. Merchandise mix, brands, service, loyalty programs, credit availability, and customer experience are also key competitive factors. Our primary competitors are traditional department stores, mass merchandisers, off-price retailers, specialty stores, internet businesses, and other forms of retail commerce. Our specific competitors vary from market to market. 

Merchandise Vendors 

We purchase merchandise from numerous domestic and foreign suppliers. All suppliers must meet certain requirements to do business with us. Our Terms of Engagement are part of our purchase order terms and conditions and include provisions regarding laws and regulations, employment practices, ethical standards, environmental requirements, communication, monitoring and compliance, record keeping, subcontracting, and corrective action. We expect that all suppliers will comply with our purchase terms and quickly remediate any deficiencies, if noted, to maintain our business relationship. 

A third-party purchasing agent sources approximately 20% of the merchandise we sell. No vendor individually accounted for more than 10% of our net purchases in 2021. We have no significant long-term purchase commitments with any of our suppliers and believe that we are not dependent on any one supplier or one geographical location. We believe we have good working relationships with our suppliers. 

Seasonality 

Our business, like that of other retailers, is subject to seasonal influences. Sales and income are typically higher during the back-to-school and holiday seasons. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year.  

Trademarks and Service Marks 

KOHL'S® is a registered trademark owned by one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. This subsidiary has over 200 additional registered trademarks, most of which are used in connection with our private brand products. 

We consider the KOHL'S® mark, all other registered trademarks, and the accompanying goodwill to be valuable to our business. 

Available Information 

Our corporate website is https://corporate.kohls.com. Through the “Investors” portion of this website, we make available, free of charge, our proxy statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Forms 3, 4, and 5, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material has been filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 

The following have also been posted on our website, under the caption “Investors” and sub-captions "Corporate Governance" or “ESG”: 

•

Committee charters of our Board of Directors’ Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Finance Committee, and Nominating and ESG Committee 

•

Corporate Governance Guidelines 

6 

Table of Contents 

•

Code of Ethics 

•

Environmental, Social, and Governance Report (under “ESG” sub-caption) 

The information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Paper copies of any of the materials listed above will be provided without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to our Investor Relations Department at N56 W17000 Ridgewood Drive, Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin 53051 or via e-mail to Investor.Relations@Kohls.com. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors