PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

Marathon Petroleum Corporation (“MPC”) has over 130 years of history in the energy business, and is a leading, integrated, downstream energy company. We operate the nation's largest refining system with approximately 2.9 million barrels per day of crude oil refining capacity and believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers in the United States. We distribute our refined products through one of the largest terminal operations in the United States and one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges. In addition, our integrated midstream energy asset network links producers of natural gas and NGLs from some of the largest supply basins in the United States to domestic and international markets. 

Our operations consist of two reportable operating segments: Refining & Marketing and Midstream. Each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers.

•Refining & Marketing – refines crude oil and other feedstocks, including renewable feedstocks, at our refineries in the Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent and West Coast regions of the United States, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products, including renewable diesel, through transportation, storage, distribution and marketing services provided largely by our Midstream segment. We sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, to buyers on the spot market, to independent entrepreneurs who operate primarily Marathon® branded outlets and through long-term supply contracts with direct dealers who operate locations mainly under the ARCO® brand.

•Midstream – transports, stores, distributes and markets crude oil and refined products principally for the Refining & Marketing segment via refining logistics assets, pipelines, terminals, towboats and barges; gathers, processes and transports natural gas; and gathers, transports, fractionates, stores and markets NGLs. The Midstream segment primarily reflects the results of MPLX LP (“MPLX”). MPLX is a diversified, large-cap master limited partnership (“MLP”) formed in 2012 that owns and operates midstream energy infrastructure and logistics assets and provides fuels distribution services. As of December 31, 2021, we owned the general partner of MPLX and approximately 64 percent of the outstanding MPLX common units.

Corporate History and Structure

MPC was incorporated in Delaware on November 9, 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of Marathon Oil Corporation (“Marathon Oil”). On May 25, 2011, the Marathon Oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its Refining, Marketing & Transportation Business into an independent, publicly traded company, MPC, through the distribution of MPC common stock to the stockholders of Marathon Oil on June 30, 2011. Our common stock trades on the NYSE under the ticker symbol “MPC.” 

On October 1, 2018, we acquired Andeavor. Andeavor shareholders received in the aggregate approximately 239.8 million shares of MPC common stock valued at $19.8 billion and $3.5 billion in cash. Andeavor was a highly integrated marketing, logistics and refining company operating primarily in the Western and Mid-Continent United States. Our acquisition of Andeavor in 2018 substantially increased our geographic diversification and the scale of our assets, which provides increased opportunities to optimize our system.

Recent Developments 

Strategic Actions to Enhance Shareholder Value

Speedway Sale

On May 14, 2021, we completed the sale of Speedway, our company-owned and operated retail transportation fuel and convenience store business, to 7-Eleven, Inc. (“7-Eleven”) for cash proceeds of $21.38 billion ($17.22 billion after cash-tax payments). This transaction resulted in a pretax gain of $11.68 billion ($8.02 billion after income taxes), after deducting the book value of the net assets and certain other adjustments. MPC remains committed to executing its plan to use the net proceeds from the sale to strengthen the balance sheet and return capital to shareholders.

4
OUR OPERATIONS

Refining & Marketing

Refineries

We currently own and operate refineries in the Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent and West Coast regions of the United States with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of 2,887 mbpcd. During 2021, our refineries processed 2,621 mbpd of crude oil and 178 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. During 2020, our refineries processed 2,418 mbpd of crude oil and 165 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. 

Our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking, catalytic reforming, coking, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. The refineries process a wide variety of condensate and light and heavy crude oils purchased from various domestic and foreign suppliers. We produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade gasolines intended for blending with ethanol and ULSD fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. Additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene and sulfur. See the Refined Product Marketing section for further information about the products we produce. 

Our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. The transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and efficiently utilize our processing capacity. Also, shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns allows us to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work.

Following is a description of each of our refineries and their capacity by region.

Gulf Coast Region (1,178 mbpcd)

Galveston Bay, Texas City, Texas Refinery (593 mbpcd) 

Our Galveston Bay refinery is our largest refining complex, and is a combination of our former Texas City refinery and Galveston Bay refinery. The refinery is located on the Texas Gulf Coast southeast of Houston, Texas and can process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, feedstocks, petrochemicals, propane and heavy fuel oil. The refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. Our cogeneration facility, which supplies the Galveston Bay refinery, currently has 1,055 megawatts of electrical production capacity and can produce 4.3 million pounds of steam per hour. Approximately 45 percent of the power generated in 2021 was used at the refinery, with the remaining electricity being sold into the electricity grid.

Garyville, Louisiana Refinery (585 mbpcd) 

Our Garyville refinery, which is one of the largest refineries in the U.S., is located along the Mississippi River in southeastern Louisiana between New Orleans, Louisiana and Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The Garyville refinery is configured to process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, petrochemicals, feedstocks, asphalt, propane and heavy fuel oil. The refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. Our Garyville refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site.

Mid-Continent Region (1,159 mbpcd)

Catlettsburg, Kentucky Refinery (291 mbpcd)

Our Catlettsburg refinery is located in northeastern Kentucky on the western bank of the Big Sandy River, near the confluence with the Ohio River. The Catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including production from the nearby Utica Shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, petrochemicals, propane, feedstocks and heavy fuel oil. Our Catlettsburg refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site. 

Robinson, Illinois Refinery (253 mbpcd) 

Our Robinson refinery is located in southeastern Illinois. The Robinson refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, feedstocks, propane, petrochemicals and heavy fuel oil. The Robinson refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site.

Detroit, Michigan Refinery (140 mbpcd) 

Our Detroit refinery is located in southwest Detroit. It is the only petroleum refinery currently operating in Michigan. The Detroit refinery processes sweet and heavy sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, feedstocks, petrochemicals, propane and heavy fuel oil. Our Detroit refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site. 

El Paso, Texas Refinery (133 mbpcd) 

Our El Paso refinery is located east of downtown El Paso. The El Paso refinery processes sweet and sour crudes into gasoline, distillates, heavy fuel oil, asphalt, propane and petrochemicals. 

5
St. Paul Park, Minnesota Refinery (105 mbpcd) 

Our St. Paul Park refinery is located along the Mississippi River southeast of St. Paul Park. The St. Paul Park refinery processes sweet and heavy sour crude and manufactures gasoline, distillates, asphalt, petrochemicals, propane, heavy fuel oil and feedstocks.

Canton, Ohio Refinery (100 mbpcd) 

Our Canton refinery is located south of Cleveland, Ohio. The Canton refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including production from the nearby Utica Shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, propane, petrochemicals, feedstocks and heavy fuel oil. The Canton refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site.

Mandan, North Dakota Refinery (71 mbpcd) 

The Mandan refinery is located outside of Bismarck, North Dakota. The Mandan refinery processes primarily sweet domestic crude oil from North Dakota and manufactures gasoline, distillates, propane, heavy fuel oil, feedstocks and petrochemicals.

Salt Lake City, Utah Refinery (66 mbpcd) 

Our Salt Lake City refinery is the largest in Utah and is located north of downtown Salt Lake City. The Salt Lake City refinery processes crude oil from Utah, Colorado, Wyoming and Canada to manufacture gasoline, distillates, petrochemicals, heavy fuel oil, propane and feedstocks.

West Coast Region (550 mbpcd)

Los Angeles, California Refinery (363 mbpcd) 

Our Los Angeles refinery is located in Los Angeles County, near the Los Angeles Harbor. The Los Angeles refinery is the largest refinery on the West Coast and is a major producer of cleaner burning CARB fuels. The Los Angeles refinery processes heavy crude from California’s San Joaquin Valley and Los Angeles Basin as well as crudes from the Alaska North Slope, South America, West Africa and other international sources and manufactures CARB gasoline and CARB diesel fuel, as well as conventional gasoline, distillates, feedstocks, petrochemicals, propane and heavy fuel oil.

Anacortes, Washington Refinery (119 mbpcd) 

Our Anacortes refinery is located north of Seattle on Puget Sound. The Anacortes refinery processes Canadian crude, domestic crude from North Dakota and Alaska North Slope and international crudes to manufacture gasoline, distillates, heavy fuel oil, feedstocks, propane and petrochemicals.

Kenai, Alaska Refinery (68 mbpcd)

Our Kenai refinery is located on the Cook Inlet, southwest of Anchorage. The Kenai refinery processes mainly Alaska domestic crude, domestic crude from North Dakota, along with limited international crude and manufactures distillates, gasoline, heavy fuel oil, feedstocks, asphalt, propane and petrochemicals.

Planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional detail. 

Refined Product Yields

The following table sets forth our refinery production by product group for each of the last three years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Product yields include renewable production.

6
Crude Oil Supply

We obtain the crude oil we refine through negotiated term contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. Our term contracts generally have market-related pricing provisions. The following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years. The crude oil sourced outside of North America was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges. 

Renewable Fuels 

The Dickinson, North Dakota, renewable fuels facility began operations at the end of 2020 and reached full design operating capacity in the second quarter of 2021. The facility has the capacity to produce 184 million gallons per year of renewable diesel from corn oil, soybean oil, fats, and greases. The produced renewable diesel generates federal RINs and LCFS credits when sold in California or similar markets. These instruments are used to help meet our Renewable Fuel Standard and LCFS compliance obligations as a petroleum fuel producer.

On February 24, 2021, we announced our plan to strategically reposition the Martinez refinery to a renewable diesel facility. Converting the Martinez facility from refining petroleum to manufacturing renewable fuels signals our strong commitment to producing a substantial level of lower carbon-intensity fuels in California. As envisioned, the Martinez facility would start producing approximately 260 million gallons per year of renewable diesel by the second half of 2022, with pretreatment capabilities coming online in 2023. The facility is expected to be capable of producing approximately 730 million gallons per year by the end of 2023. 

Our wholly owned subsidiary, Virent, operates an advanced biofuels facility in Madison, Wisconsin at which it is working to commercialize a process for converting biobased feedstocks into renewable fuels and chemicals. During 2021, Virent contributed to an aviation industry first, as United Airlines flew an aircraft full of passengers using 100 percent sustainable aviation fuel (“SAF”) in one engine and petroleum-based jet fuel in the other. Virent used its BioForm® process to produce synthesized aromatic kerosene – a critical component that made the 100 percent SAF possible. 

On December 14, 2021, we finalized the formation of a joint venture with Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (“ADM”) for the production of soybean oil to supply rapidly growing demand for renewable diesel fuel. The joint venture, which is named Green Bison Soy Processing, LLC, will own and operate a soybean processing complex in Spiritwood, North Dakota, with ADM owning 75 percent of the joint venture and MPC owning 25 percent. When complete in 2023, the Spiritwood facility will source and process local soybeans and supply the resulting soybean oil exclusively to MPC. The Spiritwood complex is expected to produce approximately 600 million pounds of refined soybean oil annually, enough feedstock for approximately 75 million gallons of renewable diesel per year. 

We hold an ownership interest in ethanol production facilities in Albion, Michigan; Logansport, Indiana; Greenville, Ohio and Denison, Iowa. These plants have a combined ethanol production capacity of approximately 475 million gallons per year and are managed by our joint venture partner, The Andersons.

Refined Product Sales

Our refined products are sold to independent retailers, wholesale customers, our brand jobbers and direct dealers. In addition, we sell refined products for export to international customers. As of December 31, 2021, there were 7,159 brand jobber outlets in 37 states, the District of Columbia and Mexico where independent entrepreneurs primarily maintain Marathon-branded outlets. We also have long-term supply contracts for 1,086 direct dealer locations primarily in Southern California, largely under the ARCO® brand. We believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers and consumers within our market area.

7
The following table sets forth our refined product sales volumes by product group for each of the last three years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Refined product sales include volumes marketed directly to end-users and trading/supply volumes such as bulk sales to large unbranded resellers and other downstream companies.

(b) Sales include renewable products.

Refined Product Sales Destined for Export

We sell gasoline, distillates and asphalt for export, primarily out of our Garyville, Galveston Bay, Anacortes and Los Angeles refineries. The following table sets forth our refined product sales destined for export by product group for the past three years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gasoline and Distillates 

We sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including No. 1 and No. 2 fuel oils, jet fuel, kerosene, diesel fuel and renewable diesel) to wholesale customers, branded jobbers, direct dealers and in the spot market. In addition, we sell diesel fuel and gasoline for export to international customers. The demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months.

Feedstocks and Petrochemicals

We are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and petrochemicals. Product availability varies by refinery and includes, among others, propylene, naphtha, xylene, benzene, butane, alkylate, raffinate, cumene, platformate and toluene. We market these products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel-blending industries. In addition, we produce fuel-grade coke at our Garyville, Detroit, Galveston Bay and Los Angeles refineries, which is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications, and anode-grade coke at our Los Angeles and Robinson refineries, in addition to calcined coke at our Los Angeles refinery, which are both used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry.

Asphalt

We have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to 141 mbpcd, which includes asphalt cements, polymer-modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt, industrial asphalts and roofing flux. We have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, resellers, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. We sell asphalt in the domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel.

Propane

We produce propane at all of our refineries. Propane is primarily used for home heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. Our propane sales are split approximately 80 percent and 20 percent between the home heating market and industrial/petrochemical consumers, respectively.

Heavy Fuel Oil

We produce and market heavy residual fuel oil or related components, including slurry, at all of our refineries. Heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product.

Terminals and Transportation

We transport, store and distribute crude oil, feedstocks and refined products through pipelines, terminals and marine fleets owned by MPLX and third parties in our market areas. 

8
We own a fleet of transport trucks and trailers for the movement of refined products and crude oil. In addition, we maintain a fleet of leased and owned railcars for the movement and storage of refined products.

The locations and detailed information about our Refining & Marketing assets are included under Item 2. Properties and are incorporated herein by reference. 

Competition, Market Conditions and Seasonality

The downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. We compete with a number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of refined products.

We compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products—wholesale, including exports, spot, branded and retail distribution. Our marketing operations compete with numerous other independent marketers, integrated oil companies and high-volume retailers. We compete with companies in the sale of refined products to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market; and refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to refiner-branded independent entrepreneurs. In addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and retail consumers.

Market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. Our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve. Price differentials between sweet and sour crude oils, ANS, WTI and MEH crude oils and other market structure impacts also affect our operating results. 

Demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. As a result, the operating results for our Refining & Marketing segment for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year.

Midstream 

The Midstream segment primarily includes the operations of MPLX, our sponsored MLP, and certain related operations retained by MPC.

MPLX

MPLX owns and operates a network of crude oil, natural gas and refined product pipelines and has joint ownership interests in other crude oil and refined products pipelines. MPLX also owns and operates light products terminals, storage assets and maintains a fleet of owned and leased towboats and barges. MPLX’s assets also include natural gas gathering systems and natural gas processing and NGL fractionation complexes. 

MPC-Retained Midstream Assets and Investments 

We have ownership interests in several crude oil and refined products pipeline systems and pipeline companies and have indirect ownership interests in two ocean vessel joint ventures through our investment in Crowley Coastal Partners. 

The locations and detailed information about our Midstream assets are included under Item 2. Properties and are incorporated herein by reference. 

Competition, Market Conditions and Seasonality

Our Midstream operations face competition for natural gas gathering, crude oil transportation and in obtaining natural gas supplies for our processing and related services; in obtaining unprocessed NGLs for gathering, transportation and fractionation; and in marketing our products and services. Competition for natural gas supplies is based primarily on the location of gas gathering facilities and gas processing plants, operating efficiency and reliability, residue gas and NGL market connectivity, the ability to obtain a satisfactory price for products recovered and the fees charged for the services supplied to the customer. Competition for oil supplies is based primarily on the price and scope of services, location of gathering/transportation and storage facilities and connectivity to the best priced markets. Competitive factors affecting our fractionation services include availability of fractionation capacity, proximity to supply and industry marketing centers, the fees charged for fractionation services and operating efficiency and reliability of service. Competition for customers to purchase our natural gas and NGLs is based primarily on price, credit and market connectivity. In addition, certain of our Midstream operations are subject to rate regulation, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines.

Our Midstream segment can be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the demand for natural gas and NGLs and the related fluctuations in commodity prices caused by various factors such as changes in transportation and travel patterns and variations in weather patterns from year to year. 

9
REGULATORY MATTERS

Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations, including those relating to the protection of the environment. Such laws and regulations include, among others, the Clean Air Act (“CAA”) with respect to air emissions, the Clean Water Act (“CWA”) with respect to water discharges, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA-90”) with respect to oil pollution and response. In addition, many states where we operate have similar laws. New laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with such new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate until finalized.

For a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Environmental Matters and Compliance Costs. For additional information regarding regulatory risks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Rate Regulation

Some of our existing pipelines are considered interstate common carrier pipelines subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) under the Interstate Commerce Act (the “ICA”), Energy Policy Act of 1992 (“EPAct 1992”) and the rules and regulations promulgated under those laws. The ICA and FERC regulations require that tariff rates for oil pipelines, a category that includes crude oil and petroleum product pipelines, be just and reasonable and the terms and conditions of service must not be unduly discriminatory. The ICA permits interested persons to challenge newly proposed tariff rates or terms and conditions of service, or any change to tariff rates or terms and conditions of service, and authorizes FERC to suspend the effectiveness of such proposal or change for a period of time to investigate. If, upon completion of an investigation, FERC finds that the new or changed service or rate is unlawful, it is authorized to require the carrier to refund the revenues in excess of the prior tariff collected during the pendency of the investigation. An interested person may also challenge existing terms and conditions of service or rates and FERC may order a carrier to change its terms and conditions of service or rates prospectively. Upon an appropriate showing, a shipper may also obtain reparations for damages sustained during the two years prior to the filing of a complaint.

EPAct 1992 deemed certain interstate petroleum pipeline rates then in effect to be just and reasonable under the ICA. These rates are commonly referred to as “grandfathered rates.” Our rates for interstate transportation service in effect for the 365-day period ending on the date of the passage of EPAct 1992 were deemed just and reasonable and therefore are grandfathered. Subsequent changes to those rates are not grandfathered. New rates have since been established after EPAct 1992 for certain pipelines, and the rates for certain of our refined products pipelines have subsequently been approved as market-based rates. 

FERC permits regulated oil pipelines to change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels that are tied to an inflation index. A carrier must, as a general rule, utilize the indexing methodology to change its rates. Cost-of-service ratemaking, market-based rates and settlement rates are alternatives to the indexing approach and may be used in certain specified circumstances to change rates.

Air

Greenhouse Gas Emissions

We believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to greenhouse gas emissions, climate change, and climate adaptation will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. Currently, legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. Reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities, (iii) capture the emissions from our facilities and (iv) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments.

In February 2021, the Interagency Working Group on the Social Cost of Greenhouse Gases published interim estimates of the social cost of carbon, methane and nitrous oxide and is expected to finalize its estimates in 2022. The social cost of carbon, methane and nitrous oxide can be used to weigh the costs and benefits of proposed regulations. A higher social cost could support more stringent greenhouse gas emission regulation.

States are becoming active in regulating greenhouse gas emissions. These measures may include state actions to develop statewide or regional programs to report emissions and impose emission reductions. These measures may also include low-carbon fuel standards, such as the California program, or a state carbon tax. These measures could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, capital expenditures to install new emission controls and costs to administer any carbon trading or tax programs implemented. For example, California has enacted a cap-and-trade program. Much of the compliance costs associated with the California program are ultimately passed on to the consumer in the form of higher fuel costs. States are increasingly announcing aspirational goals to be net-zero carbon emissions by a certain date through both legislation and executive orders. To date, these states have not provided significant details as to achievement of these goals; however, meeting these aspirations will require a reduction in fossil fuel combustion and/or a mechanism to capture greenhouse gases from the 

10
atmosphere. As a result, we cannot currently predict the impact of these potential regulations on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations.

Other Air Emissions

In 2021, EPA announced it is reconsidering the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (“NAAQS”) for ozone and particulate matter. Lowering of the NAAQS and subsequent designation as a nonattainment area could result in increased costs associated with, or result in cancellation or delay of, capital projects at our facilities, or could require emission reductions that could result in increased costs to our facilities.

In California, the Governing Board for the South Coast Air Quality Management District (“SCAQMD”) adopted Rule 1109.1 in November 2021, which establishes Best Available Retrofit Control Technology (“BARCT”) oxides of nitrogen (“NOx”) and carbon monoxide (“CO”) emission limits for combustion equipment at petroleum refineries. These new requirements will replace the Regional Clean Air Incentives Market (“RECLAIM”) cap-and-trade program which has required a staged refinery-wide reduction of NOx emissions over the last several years and will result in additional emission reductions from our Los Angeles Refinery. Compliance with Rule 1109.1 is being phased in through 2032 and will result in increased costs to operate and maintain our Los Angeles Refinery.

Water

We maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance with these permits. In addition, we are regulated under OPA-90, which, among other things, requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. OPA-90 also requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages and provides for civil penalties and criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. We operate tank vessels and facilities from which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. We have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by OPA-90 and we have established Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures plans for all facilities subject to such requirements. Some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to OPA-90, but with expanded liability provisions, that include provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility.

On October 22, 2019, EPA and the United States Army Corps of Engineers (“Army Corps”) published a final rule to repeal the 2015 “Clean Water Rule: Definition of Waters of the United States” (“2015 Rule”), which amended portions of the Code of Federal Regulations (“CFR”) to restore the regulatory text that existed prior to the 2015 Rule, effective December 23, 2019. The rule repealing the 2015 Clean Water Rule has been challenged in multiple federal courts. On April 21, 2020, EPA and the Army Corps promulgated the Navigable Waters Protection Rule (“2020 Rule”) to define “waters of the United States.” The 2020 Rule has been challenged in court. The Biden administration has signaled its intent to revisit the definition of “waters of the United States,” and replace it with a definition consistent with the 2015 Rule. A broader definition could result in increased cost of compliance or increased capital costs for construction of new facilities or expansion of existing facilities. 

In April 2020, the U.S. District Court in Montana vacated Nationwide Permit 12 (“NWP 12”), which authorizes the placement of fill material in “waters of the United States” for utility line activities as long as certain best management practices are implemented. The decision was ultimately appealed to the United States Supreme Court, which partially reversed the district court’s decision, temporarily reinstating NWP 12 for all projects except the Keystone XL oil pipeline. The United States Army Corps of Engineers subsequently reissued its nationwide permit authorizations on January 13, 2021, by dividing the NWP that authorizes utility line activities (NWP 12) into three separate NWPs that address the differences in how different utility line projects are constructed, the substances they convey, and the different standards and best management practices that help ensure those NWPs authorize only those activities that have no more than minimal adverse environmental effects. A challenge of the 2021 authorization is currently pending before the U.S. District Court in Montana and the plaintiffs request the court vacate and remand the 2021 authorization. Also, a petition has been filed with the United States Army Corps of Engineers asking it to revoke the 2021 authorization. The Biden Administration could repeal or replace the 2021 authorization in a subsequent rulemaking. The repeal, vacatur, revocation or replacement of the 2021 authorization could impact pipeline construction and maintenance activities.

As part of our emergency response activities, we have used aqueous film forming foam (“AFFF”) containing per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (“PFAS”) chemicals as a vapor and fire suppressant. At this time, AFFFs containing PFAS are the only proven foams that can prevent and control a flammable petroleum-based liquid fire involving a large storage tank or tank containment area.

In May 2016, EPA issued lifetime health advisory levels (“HALs”) and health effects support documents for two PFAS substances - Perfluorooctanoic Acid (“PFOA”) and Perfluorooctane Sulfonate (“PFOS”). Then, in February 2019, EPA issued a PFAS Action Plan identifying actions it is planning to take to study and regulate various PFAS chemicals. EPA identified that it would evaluate, among other actions, (1) proposing national drinking water standards for PFOA and PFOS, (2) develop cleanup recommendations for PFOA and PFOS, (3) evaluate listing PFOA and PFOS as hazardous substances under CERCLA, and (4) conduct toxicity assessments for other PFAS chemicals. EPA did not issue any further regulations for PFAS under the Trump administration. In October 2021, EPA updated the 2019 PFAS Action Plan. The Biden Administration has drafted a proposed rule that would designate variants of PFAS as CERCLA hazardous substances. Additional PFAS regulation could include the designation of PFAS as a RCRA hazardous waste and/or the establishment of national drinking water standards. Congress may 

11
also take further action to regulate PFAS. We cannot currently predict the impact of potential statutes or regulations on our operations or remediation costs.

In addition, many states are actively proposing and adopting legislation and regulations relating to the use of AFFFs containing PFAS. Additionally, many states are using EPA HALs for PFOS and PFOA and some states are adopting and proposing state-specific drinking water and cleanup standards for various PFAS, including but not limited to PFOS and PFOA. We cannot currently predict the impact of these regulations on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations.

Solid Waste

We continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of USTs containing regulated substances.

Remediation

We own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain convenience stores and other locations where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from USTs have occurred. Federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. Penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance. The enforcement of the UST regulations under RCRA has been delegated to the states, which administer their own UST programs. Our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the applicable state laws and regulations. A portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state UST reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. We also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our current and former refinery, terminal and pipeline locations.

Claims under CERCLA and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Vehicle and Fuel Requirements

Fuel Economy and Greenhouse Gas Emission Standards for Vehicles

The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”) establishes corporate average fuel economy (“CAFE”) standards for passenger cars and light trucks. In addition, EPA establishes carbon dioxide (“CO2”) emission standards for passenger cars and light trucks. At the direction of President Biden in his executive order setting a goal that 50 percent of all new passenger cars and light trucks sold in 2030 be zero emission vehicles, EPA and NHTSA in 2021 issued separate proposed rules setting more stringent requirements for reductions through model year 2026. NHTSA’s proposed amended CAFE standards would increase in stringency from model year 2023 levels by eight percent per year over model years 2024-2026. EPA’s revised model year 2023-2026 CO2 emission standards, which were finalized in December 2021, result in average fuel economy of 40 mpg in model year 2026. Higher CAFE and CO2 emission standards for cars and light trucks reduce demand for our transportation fuels.

In addition, California may establish per its Clean Air Act waiver authority different standards that could apply in multiple states. EPA has proposed a rule that would reinstate California’s waiver for its Advanced Clean Car program, which includes requirements for zero emission vehicle sales through 2025. California’s governor has also issued an executive order requiring sales of all new passenger vehicles in the state be zero-emission by 2035. Other states have issued, or may issue, zero emission vehicle mandates.

Renewable Fuels Standards and Low Carbon Fuel Standards

Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the EISA, Congress established a Renewable Fuel Standard (“RFS”) program that requires annual volumes of renewable fuel be blended into domestic transportation fuel. The statutory volumes apply through calendar year 2022, after which EPA is required to set the annual volumes in accordance with statutory factors. When EPA promulgates the annual renewable fuel volume obligations, EPA may reduce the amount of renewable fuel that must be blended using its waiver or reset authority. 

In its most recent annual rulemaking, EPA has proposed the annual renewable fuel standards for the years 2021 and 2022 and has also proposed reopening the renewable fuel standards for 2020 given the unique and unprecedented conditions caused by the COVID pandemic. Because the 2020 and 2021 standards would be promulgated after-the-fact, EPA is setting the standards to align with actual renewable fuel volumes. For 2022, EPA is proposing standards above the original 2020 standards. EPA is also proposing to add in a supplemental 500 million gallon total renewable fuel obligation to address the D.C. Circuit Court’s 

12
remand of the 2016 annual renewable fuel standards. The supplemental 500-million-gallon obligation would be split between 2022 and 2023. 

EPA’s policy on granting small refinery exemption petitions has changed under the Biden Administration. In December 2021, EPA proposed to deny 65 small refinery exemption petitions currently pending before the agency. In addition, EPA is re-evaluating 31 small refinery exemptions that had been granted for compliance year 2018 after the D.C. Circuit court remanded the decisions to EPA for further consideration. Under its new policy, EPA may reverse its original decision and deny these 31 petitions. All these actions – the increase in 2022 standards, the 2016 supplemental volume, EPA’s reversal of exemptions previously granted to us or other refiners – could result in a decrease in the RIN bank, an increase in the price of RINs or an increase in the amount of renewable fuel we are required to blend, any of which could increase MPC’s RFS cost of compliance.

There is currently no regulatory method for verifying the validity of most RINs sold on the open market. We have developed a RIN integrity program to vet the RINs that we purchase, and we incur costs to audit RIN generators. Nevertheless, if any of the RINs that we purchase and use for compliance are found to be invalid, we could incur costs and penalties for replacing the invalid RINs.

In addition to the federal Renewable Fuel Standards, certain states have, or are considering, promulgation of state renewable or low carbon fuel standards. For example, California began implementing its LCFS in January 2011. In September 2015, the CARB approved the re-adoption of the LCFS, which became effective on January 1, 2016, to address procedural deficiencies in the way the original regulation was adopted. The LCFS was amended again in 2018 with the current version targeting a 20 percent reduction in fuel carbon intensity from a 2010 baseline by 2030. We incur costs to comply with LCFS programs, and these costs may increase if the cost of LCFS credits increases.

In sum, the RFS has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. We may experience a decrease in demand for refined products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined products being replaced by renewable fuels. Demand for our refined products also may decrease as a result of low carbon fuel standard programs or electric vehicle mandates.

Safety Matters

We are subject to oversight pursuant to the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, as amended (“OSH Act”), as well as comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. We believe that we have conducted our operations in substantial compliance with regulations promulgated pursuant to the OSH Act, including general industry standards, record-keeping requirements and monitoring of occupational exposure to regulated substances.

We are also subject at regulated facilities to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Process Safety Management (“PSM”) and EPA’s Risk Management Program (“RMP”) requirements, which are intended to prevent or minimize the consequences of catastrophic releases of toxic, reactive, flammable or explosive chemicals. The application of these regulations can result in increased compliance expenditures.

In general, we expect industry and regulatory safety standards to become more stringent over time, resulting in increased compliance expenditures. While these expenditures cannot be accurately estimated at this time, we do not expect such expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

The DOT has adopted safety regulations with respect to the design, construction, operation, maintenance, inspection and management of our pipeline assets. These regulations contain requirements for the development and implementation of pipeline integrity management programs, which include the inspection and testing of pipelines and the correction of anomalies. These regulations also require that pipeline operation and maintenance personnel meet certain qualifications and that pipeline operators develop comprehensive spill response plans. 

Tribal Lands

Various federal agencies, including EPA and the Department of the Interior, along with certain Native American tribes, promulgate and enforce regulations pertaining to oil and gas operations on Native American tribal lands where we operate. These regulations include such matters as lease provisions, drilling and production requirements, and standards to protect environmental quality and cultural resources. In addition, each Native American tribe is a sovereign nation having the right to enforce certain laws and regulations and to grant approvals independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations. These laws and regulations may increase our costs of doing business on Native American tribal lands and impact the viability of, or prevent or delay our ability to conduct, our operations on such lands.

TRADEMARKS, PATENTS AND LICENSES 

Our Marathon and ARCO trademarks are material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations. We currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. Although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. In general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations.

13
HUMAN CAPITAL

We believe our employees are our greatest asset of strength, and our culture reflects the quality of individuals across our workforce. Our collaborative efforts to foster an inclusive environment, provide broad-based development and mentorship opportunities, recognize and reward accomplishments, and offer benefits that support the well-being of our employees and their families contribute to increased engagement and fulfilling careers. Empowering our people and prioritizing accountability also are key components for developing MPC’s high-performing culture, which is critical to achieving our strategic vision. 

Employee Profile

As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 17,700 people in full-time and part-time roles. Many of these employees provide services to MPLX, for which we are reimbursed in accordance with employee service agreements. Approximately 3,760 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 

Talent Management

Executing our strategic vision requires that we attract and retain the best talent. Recruiting and retention success requires that we effectively nurture new employees, providing opportunities for long-term engagement and career advancement. We also appropriately reward high-performers and offer competitive benefits. Our Talent Acquisition team consists of three segments: Executive Recruiting, Experienced Recruiting and University Recruiting. The specialization within each group allows us to specifically address MPC’s broad range of current and future talent needs, as well as devote time and attention to candidates during the hiring process. We value diverse perspectives in the workforce, and accordingly we seek candidates with a variety of backgrounds and experience. Our primary source of full-time, entry-level new hires is our intern/co-op program. Through our university recruiters, we offer college students who have completed their freshman year the opportunity to participate in our hands-on programs focused in areas of finance and accounting, marketing, engineering and IT.

We provide a broad range of leadership training opportunities to support the development of leaders at all levels. Our programs, which are offered across the organization are a blended approach of business and leadership content, with many featuring external faculty. We utilize various learning modalities, such as visual, audio, print, tactile, interactive, kinesthetic, experiential and leader-teaching-leader to address and engage different learning styles. We believe networking and access to our executive team are a key leadership success factor, and we incorporate these opportunities into all of our programs.

Compensation and Benefits

To ensure we are offering competitive pay packages in our recruitment and retention efforts, we annually benchmark compensation, including base salaries, bonus levels and long-term incentive targets. Our annual bonus program is a critical component of our compensation, as it provides individual rewards for MPC’s achievement against preset financial and ESG goals, encouraging a sense of employee ownership. Employees in our executive-level pay grades, as well as senior leaders and most mid-level leaders, are eligible to receive long-term incentive awards to align their compensation to the interests of shareholders.

We offer comprehensive benefits, including medical, dental and vision insurance for our employees, their spouses or domestic partners, and their dependents. We also provide retirement programs, life insurance, education assistance, family assistance, short-term disability and paid vacation and sick time. In addition, we provide generous paid parental leave benefits for birth mothers and nonbirth parents; and, parents who both work for the Company are each eligible for the benefit. Further, we have a substantial accrual cap for vacation banks and also award a significant number of college and trade school scholarships to the high school senior children of our employees through the Marathon Petroleum Scholars Program. Both full-time and part-time employees are eligible for these benefits. 

Inclusion

Our company-wide Diversity, Equity and Inclusion ("DE&I") program is guided by a dedicated DE&I team led by our Vice President Talent Acquisition and Diversity, Equity & Inclusion and supported by leadership company-wide. Our program is based on our four-pillar DE&I strategy of building awareness, increasing representation, ensuring success, and measurement and accountability. We have employee networks focusing on six populations: Asian, Black, Hispanic, Veterans, Women and LGBTQ+. Our employee networks have approximately 60 chapters across the company and all networks encourage ally membership. This broad support extends also to our leaders throughout MPC, with each employee network represented by two active executive sponsors. The sponsors form several counsels that meet regularly to share updates, gain alignment, build deeper connections across networks and pursue collaboration ideas. Our employee networks not only provide opportunities for our employees to make meaningful and supportive connections, but they also serve a significant role in our DE&I strategy.

Safety 

We are committed to safe operations to protect the health and safety of our employees, contractors and communities. Our commitment to safe operations is reflected in our safety systems design, our well-maintained equipment and by learning from our incidents. Part of our effort to promote safety includes our Operational Excellence Management System, which expands on the RC14001® scope, incorporates a Plan-Do-Check-Act continual improvement cycle, and aligns with ISO 9001, incorporating quality and an increased stakeholder and process focus. Together, these components of our safety management system provide 

14
us with a comprehensive approach to managing risks and preventing incidents, illnesses and fatalities. Additionally, our annual cash bonus program metrics includes several employee, process and environmental safety metrics.

In 2021, MPC continued to run its critical operations and facilities safely through the ongoing pandemic. In addition to COVID-19 protection measures implemented in 2020 (e.g., masking, social distancing, barriers, etc.), MPC promoted vaccinations through education campaigns and onsite clinics. Thousands of employees were inoculated at vaccine points of distribution set up onsite or through collaborative efforts with local public health clinics. As a result of these measures, MPC was able to welcome most non-essential employees back into the workplace in the spring of 2021. We continue to monitor the situation and adapt our COVID protocols as appropriate. 

Information about our Executive and Corporate Officers

The executive and corporate officers of MPC are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Corporate officer.

Mr. Hennigan was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer effective March 2020, and as a member of the Board of Directors effective April 2020. He also has served as Chairman of the Board of MPLX since April 2020, as Chief Executive Officer since November 2019 and as President since June 2017. Before joining MPLX, Mr. Hennigan was President, Crude, NGL and Refined Products, of the general partner of Energy Transfer Partners L.P., an energy service provider. He was President and Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P., an oil and gas transportation, terminalling and storage company, from 2012 to 2017, President and Chief Operating Officer beginning in 2010, and Vice President, Business Development, beginning in 2009. 

Ms. Mannen was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective January 25, 2021 and as a member of MPLX’s Board of Directors effective February 1, 2021. Before joining MPC, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of TechnipFMC (a successor to FMC Technologies, Inc.), a global leader in subsea, onshore/offshore, and surface projects for the energy industry, since 2017, having previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of FMC Technologies, Inc. since 2014, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2011, and in various positions of increasing responsibility with FMC Technologies, Inc. since 1986. 

Mr. Brooks was appointed Executive Vice President, Refining, effective October 2018. Prior to this appointment, he served as Senior Vice President, Refining, beginning in March 2016, General Manager of the Galveston Bay refinery beginning in 2013, General Manager of the Robinson refinery beginning in 2010, and General Manager of the St. Paul Park, Minnesota, refinery beginning in 2006.

Ms. Gagle was appointed General Counsel and Senior Vice President, Government Affairs, effective February 24, 2021. Prior to this appointment, she served as General Counsel beginning in March 2016, Assistant General Counsel, Litigation and Human Resources, beginning in 2011, Senior Group Counsel, Downstream Operations, beginning in 2010, and Group Counsel, Litigation, beginning in 2003.

15
Ms. Laird was appointed Chief Human Resources Officer and Senior Vice President, Communications, effective February 24, 2021. Prior to this appointment, she served as Chief Human Resources Officer beginning in October 2018, having previously served as Chief Human Resources Officer at Andeavor beginning in February 2018. Before joining Andeavor, Ms. Laird was Chief Human Resources and Communications Officer for Newell Brands, a global consumer goods company, beginning in May 2016 and Executive Vice President, Human Resources, for Unilever, a global consumer goods company, beginning in 2011.

Mr. Hagedorn was appointed Senior Vice President and Controller effective September 2021. Prior to this appointment, he served as MPLX’s Vice President and Controller since October 2017. Before joining MPLX, he was Vice President and Controller at CONSOL Energy Inc., a Pennsylvania-based natural gas and coal producer and exporter, beginning in 2015, Assistant Controller beginning in 2014 and Director, Financial Accounting, beginning in 2012. Mr. Hagedorn was Chief Accounting Officer for CONE Midstream Partners LP, a publicly traded master limited partnership with gathering assets in the Appalachian Basin, from 2014 to 2015. Previously, he served in positions of increasing responsibility with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP beginning in 1998.

Mr. Heppner was appointed Senior Vice President, Strategy and Business Development, effective February 24, 2021. Prior to this appointment, he served as Vice President, Commercial and Business Development, beginning in October 2018, Senior Vice President of Engineering Services and Corporate Support of Speedway LLC beginning in 2014, and Director, Wholesale Marketing, beginning in 2010.

Mr. Hernandez was appointed Senior Vice President, Eastern Refining Operations, effective October 2018. Prior to this appointment, he served as General Manager of the Galveston Bay refinery beginning in February 2016, and General Manager of the Catlettsburg refinery beginning in 2013.

Mr. Hessling was appointed Senior Vice President, Global Feedstocks, effective February 24, 2021. Prior to this appointment, he served as Senior Vice President, Crude Oil Supply and Logistics, beginning in October 2018, Manager, Crude Oil & Natural Gas Supply and Trading, beginning in 2014, and Crude Oil Logistics & Analysis Manager beginning in 2011.

Mr. Kaczynski was appointed Senior Vice President, Finance, and Treasurer effective February 24, 2021. Prior to this appointment, he served as Vice President, Finance, and Treasurer since 2015. Before joining MPC, Mr. Kaczynski was Vice President and Treasurer of Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, one of the world’s largest tire manufacturers, beginning in 2014, and Vice President, Investor Relations, beginning in 2013. 

Mr. Partee was appointed Senior Vice President, Global Clean Products, effective February 24, 2021. Prior to this appointment, he served as Senior Vice President, Marketing, beginning in October 2018, Vice President, Business Development, beginning in February 2018, Director of Business Development beginning in January 2017, Manager of Crude Oil Logistics beginning in 2014, and Vice President, Business Development and Franchise, at Speedway beginning in 2012. 

Mr. Powell was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Digital Officer effective July 20, 2020. Before joining MPC, he served as Vice President and Chief Information Officer (“CIO”) at GE Healthcare, a segment of General Electric Company (“GE”) that provides medical technologies and services, beginning in April 2018, having previously served as Senior Vice President and CIO, Services, of GE, a multinational conglomerate, since January 2017 and CIO, Power Services, with GE Power since 2014, and in various positions of increasing responsibility with GE and its subsidiaries since 2000.

Mr. Wilkins was appointed Senior Vice President, Health, Environment, Safety and Security, effective February 24, 2021. Prior to this appointment, he served as Vice President, Environment, Safety and Security, beginning in October 2018, Director, Environment, Safety, Security and Product Quality, beginning in February 2016, and Director, Refining Environmental, Safety, Security and Process Safety Management, beginning in 2013.

Ms. Benson was appointed Vice President, Chief Securities, Governance & Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary effective June 2018, having previously served as Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary since March 2016. Prior to her 2016 appointment, she served as Assistant General Counsel, Corporate and Finance, beginning in 2012, and Group Counsel, Corporate and Finance, beginning in 2011. 

Ms. Kazarian was appointed Vice President, Investor Relations, effective April 2018. Before joining MPC, she was Managing Director and head of the MLP, Midstream and Refining Equity Research teams at Credit Suisse, a global investment bank and financial services company, beginning in September 2017. Previously, Ms. Kazarian was Managing Director of MLP, Midstream and Natural Gas Equity Research at Deutsche Bank, a global investment bank and financial services company, beginning in 2014, and an analyst specializing on various energy industry subsectors with Fidelity Management & Research Company, a privately held investment manager, beginning in 2005. 

Mr. Linhardt was appointed Vice President, Tax, effective February 2018. Prior to this appointment, he served as Director of Tax beginning in June 2017, and Manager of Tax Compliance beginning in 2013.

16
Available Information

General information about MPC, including our Corporate Governance Principles, our Code of Business Conduct and our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, can be found at www.marathonpetroleum.com under the “Investors” tab by selecting “Corporate Governance.” We will post on our website any amendments to, or waivers from, either of our codes requiring disclosure under applicable rules within four business days of the amendment or waiver. Charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation and Organization Development Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Sustainability and Public Policy Committee are also available at this site under the “About” tab by selecting “Board of Directors.”

MPC uses its website, www.marathonpetroleum.com, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the SEC, or on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. These documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our Investor Relations office. In addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. Information contained on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other securities filings.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS