ITEM 7A.  

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Additional information concerning each of these matters follows: 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates 

We have extensive operations in foreign countries. The net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations have a muted effect on net income since the functional currency for the majority of them is the local currency. These operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that impact income. During the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, the Company reported foreign currency losses of $16 million, $2 million and $36 million, respectively. Gains and losses are primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency and adjustments to our hedged positions as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Currency fluctuations may create losses in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of our subsidiaries using the local currency as their functional currency. 

Some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in U.S. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those U.S. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. Similarly, some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated U.S. dollar costs, which also give rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. In order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. We do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. 

The Company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments (cash balances, overdraft facilities, accounts receivable and accounts payable) denominated in foreign currencies with transactional exposures totaling $382 million and translation exposures totaling $363 million as of December 31, 2021. The Company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on the transactional exposures could affect net loss by $30 million and the translational exposures could affect Other Comprehensive Income by $36 million. 

The counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. The credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. Because these contracts are net-settled the Company’s credit risk with the counterparties is limited to the foreign currency rate differential at the end of the contract. 

Interest Rate Risk 

At December 31, 2021, borrowings consisted of $1,090 million in 3.95% Senior Notes, $494 million in 3.60% Senior Notes, and other debt of $129 million. There were no commercial paper borrowings, and no outstanding letters of credit issued under the credit facility resulting in $2.0 billion of funds available under this credit facility. Additionally, the Company’s joint venture has a $150 million bank line of credit for the construction of a facility in Saudi Arabia. Interest under the bank line of credit is based upon LIBOR plus 1.40%. Occasionally a portion of borrowings under our credit facility could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. These instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either LIBOR, NIBOR or CDOR, or at the U.S. prime rate. Under our credit facility, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over LIBOR, NIBOR or CDOR for 30 days to six months. Our objective is to maintain a portion of our debt in variable rate borrowings for the flexibility obtained regarding early repayment without penalties and lower overall cost as compared with fixed-rate borrowings. 

ITEM 8.