Item 7A — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

NRG is exposed to several market risks in the Company's normal business activities. Market risk is the potential loss that may result from market changes associated with the Company's retail operations, merchant power generation, or with an existing or forecasted financial or commodity transactions. The types of market risks the Company is exposed to are commodity price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and currency exchange risk. In order to manage these risks, the Company uses various fixed-price forward purchase and sales contracts, futures and option contracts traded on NYMEX and other exchanges, and swaps and options traded in the over-the-counter financial markets to:

•Manage and hedge fixed-price purchase and sales commitments;

•Reduce exposure to the volatility of cash market prices, and

•Hedge fuel requirements for the Company's generating facilities.

Commodity Price Risk

Commodity price risks result from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward prices, volatilities, and correlations between various commodities, such as natural gas, electricity, coal, oil, and emissions credits. NRG manages the commodity price risk of the Company's load servicing obligations and merchant generation operations by entering into various derivative or non-derivative instruments to hedge the variability in future cash flows from forecasted sales and purchases of electricity and fuel. NRG measures the risk of the Company's portfolio using several analytical methods, including sensitivity tests, scenario tests, stress tests, position reports and VaR. NRG uses a Monte Carlo simulation based VaR model to estimate the potential loss in the fair value of its energy assets and liabilities, which includes generation assets, gas transportation and storage assets, load obligations and bilateral physical and financial transactions, based on historical and forward values for factors such as customer demand, weather, commodity availability and commodity prices. The Company's VaR model is based on a one-day holding period at a 95% confidence interval for the forward 36 months, not including the spot month. The VaR model is not a complete picture of all risks that may affect the Company's results. Certain events such as counterparty defaults, regulatory changes, and extreme weather and prices that deviate significantly from historically observed values are not reflected in the model.

The following table summarizes average, maximum and minimum VaR for NRG's commodity portfolio, calculated using the VaR model for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Calculation includes entire NRG portfolio as of December 31, 2021

(b)Calculation is based on NRG generation assets and load obligations excluding the acquisition of Direct Energy assets and load obligations in the first quarter of 2021

In order to provide additional information, the Company also uses VaR to estimate the potential loss of derivative financial instruments that are subject to mark-to-market accounting. These derivative instruments include transactions that were entered into for both asset management and trading purposes. The VaR for the derivative financial instruments calculated using the diversified VaR model for the entire term of these instruments entered into for both asset management and trading was $242 million as of December 31, 2021, primarily driven by asset-backed transactions. The increase in the VaR for derivative financial instruments was primarily due to the acquisition of Direct Energy.

73

Retail Customer Credit Risk 

NRG is exposed to retail credit risk related to its Business and Home customers. Retail credit risk results in losses when a customer fails to pay for services rendered. The losses may result from both nonpayment of customer accounts receivable and the loss of in-the-money forward value. NRG manages retail credit risk through the use of established credit policies that include monitoring of the portfolio and the use of credit mitigation measures, such as deposits or prepayment arrangements. 

As of December 31, 2021, the Company's retail customer credit exposure to Home and Business customers was diversified across many customers and various industries, as well as government entities. The Company's provision for credit losses resulting from credit risk was $698 million, $108 million and $95 million for the years ending December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. As a result of Winter Storm Uri, the Company incurred additional credit losses from Business customers primarily due to a segment of customers whose contracts included a pass through of wholesale power prices which were significantly escalated during the storm and from customers who failed to meet their obligations in ERCOT load curtailment programs.

Liquidity Risk

Liquidity risk arises from the general funding needs of the Company's activities and the management of the Company's assets and liabilities. The Company is currently exposed to additional collateral posting if natural gas prices decline, primarily due to the long natural gas equivalent position at various exchanges used to hedge NRG's retail supply load obligations.

Based on a sensitivity analysis for power and gas positions under marginable contracts as of December 31, 2021, a $0.50 per MMBtu decrease in natural gas prices across the term of the marginable contracts would cause an increase in margin collateral posted of approximately $828 million and a 1.00 MMBtu/MWh decrease in heat rates for heat rate positions would result in an increase in margin collateral posted of approximately $378 million. This analysis uses simplified assumptions and is calculated based on portfolio composition and margin-related contract provisions as of December 31, 2021.

Counterparty Credit Risk

Credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from non-performance or non-payment by counterparties pursuant to the terms of their contractual obligations. The Company monitors and manages credit risk through credit policies that include: (i) an established credit approval process; (ii) a daily monitoring of counterparties' credit limits; (iii) the use of credit mitigation measures such as margin, collateral, prepayment arrangements, or volumetric limits; (iv) the use of payment netting agreements; and (v) the use of master netting agreements that allow for the netting of positive and negative exposures of various contracts associated with a single counterparty. Risks surrounding counterparty performance and credit could ultimately impact the amount and timing of expected cash flows. The Company seeks to mitigate counterparty risk by having a diversified portfolio of counterparties. The Company also has credit protection within various agreements to call on additional collateral support if and when necessary. Cash margin is collected and held at the Company to cover the credit risk of the counterparty until positions settle.

As of December 31, 2021, counterparty credit exposure, excluding credit exposure from RTOs, ISOs, and registered commodity exchanges and certain long-term agreements, was $2.2 billion, of which the Company held collateral (cash and letters of credit) against those positions of $598 million resulting in a net exposure of $1.6 billion. NRG periodically receives collateral from counterparties in excess of their exposure. Collateral amounts shown include such excess while net exposure shown excludes excess collateral received. Approximately 87% of the Company's exposure before collateral is expected to roll off by the end of 2023. The following table highlights the net counterparty credit exposure by industry sector and by counterparty credit quality. Net counterparty credit exposure is defined as the aggregate net asset position for NRG with counterparties where netting is permitted under the enabling agreement and includes all cash flow, mark-to-market, NPNS, and non-derivative transactions. As of December 31, 2021, the aggregate credit exposure is shown net of collateral held, and includes amounts net of receivables or payables.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

74

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Counterparty credit exposure excludes uranium and coal transportation contracts because of the unavailability of market prices

(b)The figures in the tables above exclude potential counterparty credit exposure related to RTOs, ISOs, registered commodity exchanges and certain long-term contracts

The Company has no exposure to wholesale counterparties in excess of 10% of the total net exposure discussed above as of December 31, 2021. Changes in hedge positions and market prices will affect credit exposure and counterparty concentration.

During Winter Storm Uri, the Company experienced nonperformance by a counterparty in one of its bilateral financial hedging transactions, resulting in exposure of $403 million. The Company is pursuing all means available to enforce its rights under this transaction but, given the size of the exposure, cannot determine with certainty what the amount of its ultimate recovery will be. The full exposure was recorded as a provision for credit losses during the year ended December 31, 2021.

RTOs and ISOs

The Company participates in the organized markets of CAISO, ERCOT, ISO-NE, MISO, NYISO and PJM, known as RTOs or ISOs. Trading in these markets is approved by FERC, or in the case of ERCOT, approved by the PUCT and include credit policies that, under certain circumstances, require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. As a result, the counterparty credit risk to these markets is limited to NRG’s applicable share of the overall market and are excluded from the above exposures.

Exchange Traded Transactions

The Company enters into commodity transactions on registered exchanges, notably ICE, NYMEX and Nodal. These clearinghouses act as the counterparty and transactions are subject to extensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, these commodity transactions have limited counterparty credit risk.

Long-Term Contracts

Counterparty credit exposure described above excludes credit risk exposure under certain long-term contracts, primarily solar PPAs. As external sources or observable market quotes are not available to estimate such exposure, the Company values these contracts based on various techniques including, but not limited to, internal models based on a fundamental analysis of the market and extrapolation of observable market data with similar characteristics. Based on these valuation techniques, as of December 31, 2021, aggregate credit risk exposure managed by NRG to these counterparties was approximately $1.1 billion for the next five years. 

Interest Rate Risk

As of December 31, 2021, the Company's debt fair value was $8.3 billion and carrying value was $8.0 billion. NRG estimates that a 1% decrease in market interest rates would have increased the fair value of the Company's long-term debt by $690 million.

Credit Risk Related Contingent Features

Certain of the Company's hedging and trading agreements contain provisions that entitle the counterparty to demand that the Company post additional collateral if the counterparty determines that there has been deterioration in the Company's credit quality, generally termed “adequate assurance” under the agreements, or require the Company to post additional collateral if there were a downgrade in the Company's credit rating. In addition, as a result of the acquisition of Direct Energy from Centrica, certain of the Company’s agreements as of December 31, 2021, were still supported by credit support posted by Centrica, and as a result could require the Company to post collateral upon a deterioration or downgrade of Centrica. The collateral potentially required for contracts with adequate assurance clauses that are in a net liability position as of December 31, 2021, was $1.0 billion. The Company is also a party to certain marginable agreements under which it has a net liability position, but the counterparty has not called for the collateral due, which was approximately $70 million as of December 31, 2021. In the event of a downgrade in the Company's credit rating and if called for by the counterparty, $1 million of additional collateral would be required for all contracts with credit rating contingent features as of December 31, 2021. 

75

Currency Exchange Risk

NRG is subject to transactional exchange rate risk from transactions with customers in countries outside of the United States, primarily within Canada, as well as from intercompany transactions between affiliates. Transactional exchange rate risk arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than our functional currency or the functional currency of an applicable subsidiary. NRG hedges a portion of its forecasted currency transactions with foreign exchange forward contracts. As of December 31, 2021, NRG is exposed to changes in foreign currency primarily associated with the purchase of U.S. dollar denominated natural gas for its Canadian business and entered into foreign exchange contracts with notional amount of $279 million.

The Company is subject to translation exchange rate risk related to the translation of the financial statements of its foreign operations into U.S. dollars. Costs incurred and sales recorded by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar, primarily the Canadian and Australian dollars. A hypothetical 10% appreciation in major currencies relative to the U.S. dollar as of December 31, 2021 would have resulted in an increase of $10 million to net income within the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data