PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

The Company

News Corporation (the “Company,” “News Corp,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a global diversified media and information services company focused on creating and distributing authoritative and engaging content and other products and services to consumers and businesses throughout the world. The Company comprises businesses across a range of media, including digital real estate services, subscription video services in Australia, news and information services and book publishing, that are distributed under some of the world’s most recognizable and respected brands, including The Wall Street Journal, Barron’s, Dow Jones, The Australian, Herald Sun, The Sun, The Times, HarperCollins Publishers, Foxtel, FOX SPORTS Australia, realestate.com.au, Realtor.com®, talkSPORT, OPIS and many others.

The Company’s commitment to premium content makes its properties a premier destination for news, information, sports, entertainment and real estate. The Company distributes its content and other products and services to consumers and customers across an array of digital platforms including websites, mobile apps, smart TVs, social media, e-book devices and streaming audio platforms, as well as traditional platforms such as print, television and radio. The Company’s focus on quality and product innovation has enabled it to capitalize on the shift to digital consumption to deliver its content and other products and services in a more engaging, timely and personalized manner and create opportunities for more effective monetization, including new licensing and partnership arrangements and digital offerings that leverage the Company’s existing content rights. The Company is pursuing multiple strategies to further exploit these opportunities, including leveraging global audience scale and valuable data and sharing technologies and practices across geographies and businesses.

The Company’s diversified revenue base includes recurring subscriptions, circulation sales, advertising sales, sales of real estate listing products, licensing fees and other consumer product sales. Headquartered in New York, the Company operates primarily in the United States, Australia and the U.K., with its content and other products and services distributed and consumed worldwide. The Company’s operations are organized into six reporting segments: (i) Digital Real Estate Services; (ii) Subscription Video Services; (iii) Dow Jones; (iv) Book Publishing; (v) News Media; and (vi) Other, which includes the Company’s general corporate overhead expenses, costs related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters (as defined in Note 16—Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements) and expenses associated with the Company’s cost reduction initiatives.

The Company maintains a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to June 30 in each year. Fiscal 2022, fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020 included 53, 52 and 52 weeks, respectively. Unless otherwise noted, all references to the fiscal periods ended June 30, 2022, June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020 relate to the fiscal periods ended July 3, 2022, June 27, 2021 and June 28, 2020, respectively. For convenience purposes, the Company continues to date its financial statements as of June 30.

Corporate Information

News Corporation is a Delaware corporation originally organized on December 11, 2012 in connection with its separation from Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc., which was completed on June 28, 2013. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 (the “Annual Report”) to the “Company,” “News Corp,” “we,” “us,” or “our” means News Corporation and its subsidiaries. The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, and its telephone number is (212) 416-3400. The Company’s Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the trading symbols “NWSA” and “NWS,” respectively, and CHESS Depositary Interests representing the Company’s Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (“ASX”) under the trading symbols “NWSLV” and “NWS,” respectively. More information regarding the Company is available on its website at www.newscorp.com, including the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The information on the Company’s website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report or incorporated into any other filings it makes with the SEC.

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This document and any documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, including “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” contain statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. All statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. The words “expect,” “will,” “estimate,” 

1
“anticipate,” “predict,” “believe,” “should” and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements appear in a number of places in this document and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company, its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things, trends affecting the Company’s financial condition or results of operations, the Company’s strategy and strategic initiatives and the outcome of contingencies such as litigation and investigations. Readers are cautioned that any forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. More information regarding these risks and uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is set forth under the heading “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report. The Company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the Company with the SEC. This section should be read together with the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation (the “Financial Statements”) and related notes set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report.

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

The Company’s six reporting segments are described below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Digital Real Estate Services 

The Company’s Digital Real Estate Services segment consists of its 61.4% interest in REA Group, a publicly-traded company listed on ASX (ASX: REA), and its 80% interest in Move. The remaining 20% interest in Move is held by REA Group. 

REA Group 

REA Group is a market-leading digital media business specializing in property, with operations focused on property and property-related advertising and services, as well as financial services. 

Property and Property-Related Advertising and Services

REA Group advertises property and property-related services on its websites and mobile apps across Australia. REA Group’s Australian operations include leading residential, commercial and share property websites realestate.com.au, realcommercial.com.au and Flatmates.com.au, as well as property research site Property.com.au. Additionally, REA Group operates media display and data services businesses, serving the display media market and markets adjacent to property, respectively. For the year ended June 30, 2022, average monthly visits to realestate.com.au were more than 124.1 million. Launches of the realestate.com.au app increased 7% to 59 million average monthly launches in fiscal 2022 as compared to the prior year, with consumers spending almost four times longer on the app than any other property app in Australia according to Nielsen Digital Media Ratings. Realcommercial.com.au remains Australia’s leading commercial property site across website and app. In fiscal 2022, the realcommercial.com.au app was launched 20.2 times more than the nearest competitor, and consumers spent 19.4 times longer on the realcommercial.com.au app based on Nielsen Digital Media Ratings data. Flatmates.com.au is the largest site for share accommodation in Australia, with average monthly visits of 3.2 million and more than 360,000 new members during fiscal 2022.

Realestate.com.au and realcommerical.com.au derive the majority of their revenue from their core property advertising listing products and monthly advertising subscriptions from real estate agents and property developers. Realestate.com.au and realcommercial.com.au offer a product hierarchy which enables real estate agents and property developers to upgrade listing 

2
advertisements to increase their prominence on the site, as well as a variety of targeted products, including media display advertising products. Flatmates.com.au derives the majority of its revenue from advertising listing products and membership fees. The media business offers unique advertising opportunities on REA Group’s websites to property developers and other relevant markets, including utilities and telecommunications, insurance, finance, automotive and retail. REA Group also provides residential property data services to the financial sector through its Proptrack data services business, primarily on a monthly subscription basis. 

REA Group’s international operations consist of digital property assets in Asia, including a wholly-owned property portal in China, a 73.3% interest in Elara Technologies Pte. Ltd. (which was rebranded to REA India), a leading digital real estate services provider in India that owns and operates PropTiger.com and Housing.com (News Corp holds a 26.6% interest in REA India), and a 17.5% interest in PropertyGuru Pte. Ltd., a leading digital property technology company operating marketplaces in Southeast Asia and listed on the New York Stock Exchange. REA Group’s other assets include a 20% interest in Move, as referenced above. REA Group’s international businesses derive the majority of their revenue from their property advertising listing products and monthly advertising subscriptions from real estate agents and property developers.

Financial Services 

REA Group’s financial services business encompasses an end-to-end digital property search and financing experience and mortgage broking services primarily under its Mortgage Choice brand. REA Group has continued to execute on its financial services strategy by growing its nationwide broker network and developing innovative products and partnerships, including a digital loan application with Ubank (a division of National Australia Bank Limited). The financial services business generates revenue primarily through fees and commissions from lenders, mortgage brokers and other customers.

Move 

Move is a leading provider of digital real estate services in the U.S. Move primarily operates Realtor.com®, a premier real estate information, advertising and services platform, under a perpetual agreement and trademark license with the National Association of Realtors® (“NAR”). Through Realtor.com®, consumers have access to over 145 million properties across the U.S., including an extensive collection of homes, properties and apartments listed and displayed for sale or for rent and a large database of “off-market” properties. Realtor.com® and its related mobile apps display nearly 100% of all Multiple Listing Services (“MLS”)-listed, for-sale and rental properties in the U.S., which are primarily sourced directly from relationships with MLSs across the country. Realtor.com® also sources new construction and rental listing content from a variety of sources, including directly from homebuilders and landlords, as well as from listing aggregators. Approximately 96% of its for-sale listings are updated at least every 10 minutes, on average, with the remaining listings updated daily. Realtor.com®’s content attracts a large and highly engaged consumer audience. Based on internal data, Realtor.com® and its mobile sites had approximately 93 million average monthly unique users during the quarter ended June 30, 2022. See “Part I. Business—Explanatory Note Regarding Certain Metrics.”

Realtor.com® generates the majority of its revenues through the sale of listing advertisement and lead generation products, including ConnectionsSM Plus, Market VIPSM, AdvantageSM Pro and Sales BuilderSM, as well as its real estate referral-based service ReadyConnect ConciergeSM. Listing advertisement and lead generation products allow real estate agents, brokers and homebuilders to enhance, prioritize and connect with consumers on for-sale property listings within the Realtor.com® website and mobile apps. Listing advertisement and lead generation products are typically sold on a subscription basis. The real estate referral-based business model, as well as the Market VIPSM lead generation product, leverage Move’s proprietary technology and platform to connect real estate professionals and other service providers, such as lenders and insurance companies, to pre-vetted consumers who have submitted inquiries via the Realtor.com® website and mobile apps, as well as other online sources. The real estate referral-based services that connect real estate agents and brokers with these consumers typically generate fees upon completion of the associated real estate transaction, while the referral-based services that give other service providers, including lenders and insurance companies, access to the same highly qualified home shoppers are generally provided on a subscription basis. Realtor.com® also derives revenue from sales of non-listing advertisement, or Media, products to real estate, finance, insurance, home improvement and other professionals that enable those professionals to connect with Realtor.com®’s highly engaged and valuable consumer audience. Media products include sponsorships, display advertisements, text links, directories and other advertising and lead generation services. Non-listing advertisement pricing models include cost per thousand, cost per click, cost per unique user and subscription-based sponsorships of specific content areas or targeted geographies. 

In addition to Realtor.com®, Move also offers online tools and services to do-it-yourself landlords and tenants, including Avail, a platform that improves the renting experience for do-it-yourself landlords and tenants with online tools, educational content and 

3
world-class support. Avail employs a variety of pricing models, including subscription fees, as well as fixed- or variable-pricing models. 

The Company’s digital real estate services businesses operate in highly competitive markets that are evolving rapidly in response to new technologies, business models, product and service offerings and changing consumer and customer preferences. The success of these businesses depends on their ability to provide products and services that are useful for consumers, real estate, mortgage and other related services professionals, homebuilders and landlords and attractive to their advertisers, the breadth, depth and accuracy of information they provide and brand awareness and reputation. These businesses compete primarily with companies that provide real-estate focused technology, products and services in their respective geographic markets, including other real estate and property websites in Australia, the United States and Asia. 

Subscription Video Services 

The Company’s Subscription Video Services segment provides sports, entertainment and news services to pay-TV and streaming subscribers and other commercial licensees, primarily via cable, satellite and internet distribution. This segment consists of (i) the Company’s 65% interest in NXE Australia Pty Limited, which, together with its subsidiaries, is referred to herein as the “Foxtel Group” (the remaining 35% interest in the Foxtel Group is held by Telstra Corporation Limited), and (ii) Australian News Channel (“ANC”). 

The Foxtel Group 

The Foxtel Group is the largest Australian-based subscription television provider, with a suite of offerings targeting a wide range of consumers. These include (i) its Foxtel premium pay-TV aggregation and Foxtel Now streaming services, which deliver approximately 200 channels1, including a number of owned and operated channels, covering sports, general entertainment, movies, documentaries, music, children’s programming and news, and (ii) its sports, entertainment and recently launched news aggregation streaming services, Kayo Sports, BINGE and Flash. Through both its owned and operated and licensed channels on Foxtel, as well as Foxtel Now and Kayo Sports, the Foxtel Group broadcasts and streams approximately 30,000 hours of live sports programming each year, encompassing both live national and international licensed sports events such as National Rugby League, Australian Football League, Cricket Australia and various motorsports programming. Live sports programming also includes other featured original and licensed premium sports content tailored to the Australian market such as events from ESPN and beIN Sports. Entertainment content provided by the Foxtel Group through the Foxtel, Foxtel Now and BINGE services includes television programming from Warner Bros. Discovery, FOX, NBCUniversal, Paramount Global and BBC Studios, as well as Foxtel-produced original dramas and lifestyle shows. 

The Foxtel Group’s content is available through channels and on-demand and is currently distributed to broadcast subscribers using cable networks accessed through Telstra, Optus’s satellite platform or internet delivery via Foxtel’s set-top boxes, including the iQ4 and iQ5 (satellite and internet only). The Foxtel Group intends to migrate all broadcast subscribers to satellite or internet delivery by June 2023. Broadcast subscribers can also access Foxtel’s content using Foxtel GO, a companion service app on mobile devices. In addition, the Foxtel Group offers video content via the internet through its Kayo Sports, BINGE, Foxtel Now and Flash streaming services, which are available on a number of devices. The Foxtel Group also offers a bundled broadband product, which consists of Foxtel’s broadcast pay-TV service, sold together with an unlimited broadband service (predominantly on the National Broadband Network), and an option for customers to add home phone services. In addition to its subscription television services, the Foxtel Group operates FOX SPORTS Australia, the leading producer of live sports programming in Australia, foxsports.com.au, a leading general sports news website in Australia, and Watch NRL and Watch AFL, subscription services that provide live streaming and on-demand replays of National Rugby League and Australian Football League matches internationally. 

The Foxtel Group generates revenue primarily through subscription revenue from its pay-TV and streaming services as well as advertising revenue. The Foxtel Group’s business generally is not highly seasonal, though subscribers and results can fluctuate due to the timing and mix of its local and international sports programming. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for information regarding certain key performance indicators for the Foxtel Group. 

The Foxtel Group competes primarily with a variety of other video content providers, such as traditional Free To Air (“FTA”) TV operators in Australia, including the three major commercial FTA networks and two major government-funded FTA broadcasters, and content providers that deliver video programming over the internet to televisions, computers, and mobile and other devices. 

1 Channel count includes standard definition channels, high definition versions of those channels, audio channels and 4K Ultra HD channels.

4
These providers include Internet Protocol television, or IPTV, subscription video-on-demand, or SVOD, and broadcast video-on-demand, or BVOD, services; streaming services offered through digital media providers; as well as programmers and distributors that provide content, including smaller, lower-cost or free programming packages, directly to consumers over the internet. The Company believes that the Foxtel Group’s premium service and exclusive content, wide array of products and services, set-top box features that enable subscribers to record, rewind, discover and watch content, its integration of third-party apps and its investment in On Demand capability and programming enable it to offer subscribers a compelling alternative to its competitors. Its streaming services, including Kayo Sports, BINGE, Foxtel Now and Flash, provide a diversified portfolio of subscription television services that allow the Foxtel Group to provide services targeted at a wide range of Australian consumers.

Australian News Channel 

ANC operates nine channels and has carriage rights for two additional channels in Australia featuring the latest in news, politics, sports, entertainment, public affairs, business and weather. ANC is licensed by Sky International AG to use Sky trademarks and domain names in connection with its operation and distribution of channels and services. ANC’s channels consist of Fox Sports News, Sky News Live, Sky News Weather, Sky News Extra, Sky News Extra 1, Sky News Extra 2, Sky News Extra 3, Sky News New Zealand and Sky News Regional. ANC channels are distributed throughout Australia and New Zealand and available on Foxtel and Sky Network Television NZ. Sky News Regional is available on the regional FTA WIN and Southern Cross Austereo networks in Australia. ANC also owns and operates the international Australia Channel IPTV service and offers content across a variety of digital media platforms, including web, mobile and third party providers. ANC primarily generates revenue through monthly affiliate fees received from pay-TV providers and advertising. 

ANC competes primarily with other news providers in Australia and New Zealand via its subscription television channels, third party content arrangements and free domain website. Its Australia Channel IPTV service also competes against subscription-based streaming news providers in regions outside of Australia and New Zealand. 

Dow Jones

The Company's Dow Jones segment is a global provider of news and business information, which distributes its content and data through a variety of owned and off-platform media channels including newspapers, newswires, websites, mobile apps, newsletters, magazines, proprietary databases, live journalism, video and podcasts. This segment consists of the Dow Jones business, whose products target individual consumers and enterprise customers and include The Wall Street Journal, Barron’s, MarketWatch, Investor’s Business Daily, Factiva, Dow Jones Risk & Compliance, Dow Jones Newswires and OPIS. The Dow Jones segment’s revenue is diversified across business-to-consumer and business-to-business subscriptions, circulation, advertising, including custom content and sponsorships, licensing fees for its print and digital products and participation fees for its live journalism events. Advertising revenues at the Dow Jones segment are subject to seasonality, with revenues typically highest in the Company’s second fiscal quarter due to the end-of-year holiday season.

Consumer Products

Through its premier brands and authoritative journalism, the Dow Jones segment’s products targeting individual consumers provide insights, research and understanding that enable consumers to stay informed and make educated financial decisions. As consumer preferences for content consumption evolve, the Dow Jones segment continues to capitalize on new digital distribution platforms, technologies and business models for these products, including distribution of content through licensing arrangements with third party subscription and non-subscription platform providers such as Apple News and Google, which is referred to as off-platform distribution. With a focus on the financial markets, investing and other professional services, many of these products offer advertisers an attractive consumer demographic. Products targeting consumers include the following:

•The Wall Street Journal (WSJ). WSJ, Dow Jones’s flagship product, is available in print, online and across multiple mobile devices. WSJ covers national and international news and provides analysis, commentary, reviews and opinions on a wide range of topics, including business developments and trends, economics, financial markets, investing, science and technology, lifestyle, culture, consumer products and sports. WSJ’s print products are printed at plants located around the U.S., including both owned and third-party facilities. WSJ’s digital products offer both free content and premium, subscription-only content and are comprised of WSJ.com, WSJ mobile products, including a responsive design website and mobile apps (WSJ Mobile), and live and on-demand video through WSJ.com and other platforms such as YouTube, internet-connected television and set-top boxes (WSJ Video), as well as podcasts. For the year ended June 30, 2022, WSJ Mobile (including WSJ.com accessed via mobile devices, as well as apps, and excluding off-platform distribution) accounted for approximately 69% of visits to WSJ’s digital news and information products according to Adobe Analytics.

5
•Barron’s Group. The Barron’s Group focuses on Dow Jones consumer brands outside of The Wall Street Journal franchise, including Barron’s and MarketWatch, among other properties.

Barron’s. Barron’s, which is available to subscribers in print, online and on multiple mobile devices, delivers news, analysis, investigative reporting, company profiles and insightful statistics for investors and others interested in the investment world.

MarketWatch. MarketWatch is an investing and financial news website targeting active investors. It also provides real-time commentary and investment tools and data. Products include mobile apps and a responsive design website, and revenue is generated through the sale of advertising, as well as its premium digital subscription service.

•Investor’s Business Daily (IBD). IBD provides investing content, analytical products and educational resources to subscribers in print and online, as well as through mobile apps and video. IBD’s services include the Investors.com website, the MarketSmith and LeaderBoard market research and analysis tools and a weekly print publication.

•The Wall Street Journal Digital Network (WSJDN). WSJDN offers advertisers the opportunity to reach Dow Jones’s audience across a number of brands, including WSJ, Barron’s and MarketWatch. WSJDN does not include IBD.

•Live Journalism. The Dow Jones segment offers a number of in-person and virtual conferences and events each year. These live journalism events offer advertisers and sponsors the opportunity to reach a select group of influential leaders from industry, finance, government and policy. Many of these programs also earn revenue from participation fees charged to attendees.

The following table provides information regarding average daily subscriptions (excluding off-platform distribution) during the three months ended June 30, 2022 for certain Dow Jones segment consumer products and for all consumer subscription products:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________________

(1)Based on internal data for the period from March 28, 2022 to July 3, 2022, with independent verification procedures performed by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP UK.

(2)Barron’s Group consists of Barron’s, MarketWatch, Financial News and Private Equity News. 

(3)Total Consumer consists of The Wall Street Journal, Barron’s Group and Investor’s Business Daily.

(4)Subscriptions include individual consumer subscriptions, as well as subscriptions purchased by companies, schools, businesses and associations for use by their respective employees, students, customers or members. Subscriptions exclude single-copy sales and copies purchased by hotels, airlines and other businesses for limited distribution or access to customers.

(5)For some publications, including The Wall Street Journal and Barron’s, the Dow Jones segment sells bundled print and digital products. For bundles that provide access to both print and digital products every day of the week, only one unit is reported each day and is designated as a print subscription. For bundled products that provide access to the print product only on specified days and full digital access, one print subscription is reported for each day that a print copy is served and one digital subscription is reported for each remaining day of the week.

The following table provides information regarding the digital platforms (excluding off-platform distribution) for certain Dow Jones segment consumer products:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________________

(1)Includes visits via websites and mobile apps based on Adobe Analytics for the 12 months ended June 30, 2022.

(2)Includes page views via websites and mobile apps based on Adobe Analytics for the 12 months ended June 30, 2022.

(3)Includes aggregate unique users accessing websites and mobile apps based on Adobe Analytics for the 12 months ended June 30, 2022. See “Part I. Business—Explanatory Note Regarding Certain Metrics” for more information regarding the calculation of unique users.

6
(4)Total Consumer consists of WSJDN and IBD.

Professional Information Products

The Dow Jones segment’s professional information products, which target enterprise customers, combine news and information with technology and tools that inform decisions and aid awareness, research and understanding. These products consist of its Factiva, Dow Jones Risk & Compliance, Dow Jones Newswires and OPIS products. Specific products include the following: 

•Factiva. Factiva is a leading provider of global business content, built on an archive of important original and licensed publishing sources. Factiva offers content from approximately 33,000 global news and information sources from over 200 countries and territories and in 29 languages. This combination of business news and information, plus sophisticated tools, helps professionals find, monitor, interpret and share essential information. As of June 30, 2022, there were approximately 1.0 million activated Factiva users, including both institutional and individual accounts.

•Dow Jones Risk & Compliance. Dow Jones Risk & Compliance products provide data solutions for customers focused on anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, counter terrorism financing, monitoring embargo and sanction lists and other compliance requirements. Dow Jones’s solutions allow customers to filter their business transactions and third parties against its data to identify regulatory, corporate and reputational risk, and request follow-up reports to conduct further due diligence. Products include online risk data and negative news searching tools such as RiskCenter Financial Crime Search and RiskCenter Financial Crime Screening and Monitoring for bulk screening and RiskCenter Trade Compliance for trade finance-related checks on dual-use goods. Dow Jones also provides an online solution for supplier risk assessment, RiskCenter Third Party, which provides customers with automated risk and compliance checks via questionnaires and embedded scoring. Feed services include PEPs (politically exposed persons), Sanctions, Adverse Media and other Specialist Lists. In addition, Dow Jones produces customized Due Diligence Reports to assist its customers with regulatory compliance.

•Dow Jones Newswires. Dow Jones Newswires distributes real-time business news, information, analysis, commentary and statistical data to financial professionals and investors worldwide. It publishes, on average, over 16,000 news items each day, which are distributed via Dow Jones’s market data platform partners, including Bloomberg and FactSet, as well as trading platforms and websites reaching hundreds of thousands of financial professionals. This content also reaches millions of individual investors via customer portals and the intranets of brokerage and trading firms, as well as digital media publishers. Dow Jones Newswires is also used as an input for algorithms supporting automated trading.

•Oil Price Information Service (OPIS). OPIS, which was acquired in the second half of fiscal 2022, provides pricing data, news, analysis, software and events relating to energy commodities, including crude oil, refined products, petrochemicals, natural gas liquids, coal, metals, renewables, Renewable Identification Numbers and carbon credits. OPIS also provides pricing data, insights, analysis and forecasting for key base chemicals through its Chemical Market Analytics business (formerly Base Chemicals). 

The Dow Jones segment’s businesses compete with a wide range of media and information businesses, including print publications, digital media and information services.

The Dow Jones segment’s consumer products, including its newspapers, magazines, digital publications, podcasts and video, compete for consumers, audience and advertising with other local and national newspapers, web and app-based media, news aggregators, customized news feeds, search engines, blogs, magazines, investment tools, social media sources, podcasts and event producers, as well as other media such as television, radio stations and outdoor displays. Competition for subscriptions and circulation is based on news and editorial content, data and analytics content in research tools, subscription pricing, cover price and, from time to time, various promotions. Competition for advertising is based upon advertisers’ judgments as to the most effective media for their advertising budgets, which is in turn based upon various factors, including circulation volume, readership levels, audience demographics, advertising rates, advertising effectiveness and brand strength and reputation. As a result of rapidly changing and evolving technologies, distribution platforms and business models, and corresponding changes in consumer behavior, the consumer-focused businesses within the Dow Jones segment continue to face increasing competition for both circulation and advertising revenue, including from a variety of alternative news and information sources, as well as programmatic advertising buying channels and off-platform distribution of its products. Shifts in consumer behavior require the Company to continually innovate and improve upon its own products, services and platforms in order to remain competitive. The Company believes that these changes will continue to pose opportunities and challenges, and that it is well positioned to leverage its global reach, brand recognition and proprietary technology to take advantage of the opportunities presented by these changes.

7
The Dow Jones segment’s professional information products that target enterprise customers compete with various information service providers, compliance data providers, global financial newswires and energy and commodities pricing and data providers, including Reuters News, RELX (including LexisNexis and ICIS), Refinitiv, S&P Global, DTN and Argus Media, as well as many other providers of news, information and compliance data.

Book Publishing 

The Company’s Book Publishing segment consists of HarperCollins, the second largest consumer book publisher in the world based on global revenue, with operations in 17 countries. HarperCollins publishes and distributes consumer books globally through print, digital and audio formats. Its digital formats include e-books and downloadable audio books for a variety of mobile devices. HarperCollins owns more than 120 branded imprints, including Harper, William Morrow, Mariner, HarperCollins Children’s Books, Avon, Harlequin and Christian publishers Zondervan and Thomas Nelson.

HarperCollins publishes works by well-known authors such as Harper Lee, George Orwell, Agatha Christie and Zora Neale Hurston, as well as global author brands including J.R.R. Tolkien, C.S. Lewis, Daniel Silva, Karin Slaughter and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. It is also home to many beloved children’s books and authors, including Goodnight Moon, Curious George, Little Blue Truck, Pete the Cat and David Walliams. In addition, HarperCollins has a significant Christian publishing business, which includes the NIV Bible, Jesus Calling and author Max Lucado. HarperCollins’ print and digital global catalog includes more than 250,000 publications in different formats, in 16 languages, and it licenses rights for its authors’ works to be published in more than 50 languages around the world. HarperCollins publishes fiction and nonfiction, with a focus on general, children’s and religious content. Additionally, in the U.K., HarperCollins publishes titles for the equivalent of the K-12 educational market. 

As of June 30, 2022, HarperCollins offered approximately 140,000 publications in digital formats, and nearly all of HarperCollins’ new titles, as well as the majority of its entire catalog, are available as e-books. Digital sales, comprising revenues generated through the sale of e-books as well as downloadable audio books, represented approximately 21% of global consumer revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022. With the widespread adoption of electronic formats by consumers, HarperCollins is publishing a number of titles in digital formats before, or instead of, publishing a print edition. 

During fiscal 2022, HarperCollins U.S. had 229 titles on the New York Times print and digital bestseller lists, with 36 titles hitting number one, including The Boy, The Mole, The Fox and The Horse by Charlie Mackesy, The Cellist by Daniel Silva, The Hate U Give by Angie Thomas, Finding Me by Viola Davis, The Storyteller by Dave Grohl, The Stranger in the Lifeboat by Mitch Albom, The One and Only Ivan by Katherine Applegate, They Both Die at The End by Adam Silvera, Gallant by V.E. Schwab, Little Blue Truck’s Valentine by Alice Schertle, Red-Handed by Peter Schweiser, The Pioneer Woman Cooks – Super Easy! by Ree Drummond, The Mothers and Daughters of the Bible Speak by Shannon Bream, The Paris Apartment by Lucy Foley, All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy and To Rescue the Republic by Bret Baier with Catherine Whitney. 

HarperCollins derives its revenue from the sale of print and digital books to a customer base that includes global technology companies, traditional brick and mortar booksellers, wholesale clubs and discount stores, including Amazon, Apple, Barnes & Noble and Tesco. Revenues at the Book Publishing segment are significantly affected by the timing of releases and the number of HarperCollins’ books in the marketplace, and are typically highest during the Company’s second fiscal quarter due to increased demand during the end-of-year holiday season in its main operating geographies. 

The book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market that is quickly changing and continues to see technological innovations. HarperCollins competes with other large publishers, such as Penguin Random House, Simon & Schuster and Hachette Livre, as well as with numerous smaller publishers, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public personalities; competition could also come from new entrants as barriers to entry in book publishing are low. In addition, HarperCollins competes for consumers with other media formats and sources such as movies, television programming, magazines and mobile content. The Company believes HarperCollins is well positioned in the evolving book publishing market with significant size and brand recognition across multiple categories and geographies. 

News Media

The Company’s News Media segment consists primarily of News Corp Australia, News UK and the New York Post. This segment also includes Wireless Group, operator of talkSPORT, the leading sports radio network in the U.K., and Virgin Radio, the Company’s recently launched TalkTV, which is available on multiple platforms including linear television and streaming, and Storyful, a social media content agency that enables the Company to source real-time video content through social media platforms. The News Media segment generates revenue primarily through circulation and subscription sales of its print and digital 

8
products and sales of print and digital advertising. Advertising revenues at the News Media segment are subject to seasonality, with revenues typically highest in the Company’s second fiscal quarter due to the end-of-year holiday season in its main operating geographies.

News Corp Australia

News Corp Australia is one of the leading news and information providers in Australia by readership, with both print and digital mastheads covering a national, regional and suburban footprint. During the year ended March 31, 2022, its daily, Sunday, weekly and bi-weekly newspapers were read by 4.5 million Australians on average every week. In addition, its digital mastheads are among the leading digital news properties in Australia based on monthly unique audience data and had approximately 882,000 aggregate digital closing subscribers as of June 30, 2022.

News Corp Australia’s news portfolio includes The Australian and The Weekend Australian (National), The Daily Telegraph and The Sunday Telegraph (Sydney), Herald Sun and Sunday Herald Sun (Melbourne), The Courier Mail and The Sunday Mail (Brisbane) and The Advertiser and Sunday Mail (Adelaide), as well as paid digital platforms for each. In addition, News Corp Australia owns leading regional publications in Geelong, Cairns, Townsville, Gold Coast and Darwin and a small number of community mastheads.

The following table provides information regarding key properties within News Corp Australia’s portfolio:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________________

(1)As of June 30, 2022, based on internal sources.

(2)Based on Roy Morgan Single Source Australia; Apr 2021 – Mar 2022; P14+ average monthly print readership data for the year ended March 31, 2022. In fiscal 2022, the news media industry in Australia transitioned from Enhanced Media Metrics Australia to Roy Morgan, which provides a single unified metric for total news readership produced by one entity instead of multiple data sources.

News Corp Australia’s broad portfolio of digital properties also includes news.com.au, one of the leading general interest sites in Australia that provides breaking news, finance, entertainment, lifestyle, technology and sports news and delivers an average monthly unique audience of approximately 12.5 million based on Nielsen monthly total audience ratings for the year ended June 30, 2022. In addition, News Corp Australia owns other premier properties such as taste.com.au, a leading food and recipe site, and kidspot.com.au, a leading parenting website, as well as various other digital media assets. As of June 30, 2022, News Corp Australia’s other assets included a 13.1% interest in HT&E Limited, which operates a portfolio of Australian radio and outdoor media assets, and a 28.5% interest in Hipages Group Pty Ltd., which operates a leading on-demand home improvement services marketplace.

News UK

News UK publishes The Sun, The Sun on Sunday, The Times and The Sunday Times, which are leading newspapers in the U.K. that together accounted for approximately one-third of all national newspaper sales as of June 30, 2022. The Sun is the most read news brand in the U.K., and The Times and The Sunday Times are the most read national newspapers in the U.K. quality market. Together, across print and digital, these brands reach approximately 74% of adult news readers in the U.K., or approximately 35 million people, based on PAMCo data for the year ended March 31, 2022. In addition to revenue from advertising, circulation and subscription sales for its print and digital products, News UK generates revenue by providing third party printing services through its world-class printing facilities in England and Scotland and is one of the largest contract printers in the U.K. News UK also distributes content through its digital platforms, including its websites, thesun.co.uk, thetimes.co.uk and thesundaytimes.co.uk, as well as mobile apps. In addition, News UK has assembled a portfolio of complementary ancillary product offerings, including betting and gaming products. The following table provides information regarding News UK’s news portfolio:

9
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________________

(1)Based on Publishers Audience Measurement Company (“PAMCo”) data for the 12 months ended March 31, 2022.

(2)As of June 30, 2022, based on internal sources and including subscribers to the Times Literary Supplement (“TLS”). Total subscribers across The Times and The Sunday Times, including TLS, as of June 30, 2022 was 665,000, including 445,000 closing digital subscribers. Total figures are de-duplicated for subscribers who receive a print product every day of the week.

(3)In addition to their print and digital-only products, The Times and The Sunday Times sell print and digital products bundled into one subscription, which is counted only once, under “print,” in the table above.

(4)Includes aggregate unique users accessing websites and mobile apps based on Google Analytics data for the month ended June 30, 2022. See “Part I. Business—Explanatory Note Regarding Certain Metrics.”

New York Post

NYP Holdings (“NYP”) is the publisher of the New York Post (the “Post”), NYPost.com, PageSix.com, Decider.com and related mobile apps and social media channels. The Post is the oldest continuously published daily newspaper in the U.S., with a focus on coverage of the New York metropolitan area. The Post provides a variety of general interest content ranging from breaking news to business analysis, and is known in particular for its comprehensive sports coverage, famous headlines and its iconic Page Six section, an authority on celebrity news. The print version of the Post is primarily distributed in New York, as well as throughout the Northeast, Florida and California. For the three months ended June 30, 2022, average weekday circulation based on internal sources, including mobile app digital editions, was 478,520. In addition, the Post Digital Network, which includes NYPost.com, PageSix.com and Decider.com, averaged approximately 203.1 million unique users per month during the quarter ended June 30, 2022 according to Google Analytics. See “Part I. Business—Explanatory Note Regarding Certain Metrics” for information regarding the calculation of unique users.

The News Media segment’s newspapers, magazines, digital publications, radio stations, television station and podcasts generally face competition from similar sources, and compete on similar bases, as the consumer products within the Dow Jones segment, particularly in their respective operating geographies. See “Item 1. Business – Business Overview – Dow Jones” above for further information.

Other

The Other segment includes the Company’s general corporate overhead expenses, costs related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters

and expenses associated with the Company’s cost reduction initiatives.

Governmental Regulation

General

Various aspects of the Company’s activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. The introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the Company’s products and services are produced or distributed, and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries, could have a negative impact on the Company’s interests.

Australian Media Regulation

The Company’s subscription television interests are subject to Australia’s regulatory framework for the broadcasting industry, including the Broadcasting Services Act 1992 (Cth) (the “Broadcasting Services Act”) and associated Codes. The key regulatory body for the Australian broadcasting industry is the Australian Communications and Media Authority.

Key regulatory issues for subscription television providers include: (a) anti-siphoning restrictions—currently under the ‘anti-siphoning’ provisions of the Broadcasting Services Act, subscription broadcast television providers are restricted from acquiring 

10
rights to televise certain listed events (for example, the Olympic Games and certain Australian Football League and cricket matches) unless a national or commercial television broadcaster whose television broadcasting services cover more than 50% of the Australian population has acquired the right to televise the event or such rights have not been acquired 26 weeks before the start of the relevant event and an FTA broadcaster has had a reasonable opportunity to acquire the rights to that event; and (b) content requirements—the Company must comply with certain content requirements, including restrictions on the inclusion of gambling advertising during live sporting events. 

Foxtel is also subject to various consumer protection regimes under the Telecommunications Act 1997 (Cth), the Telecommunications Act 1999 (Cth) and associated Codes, which apply to Foxtel’s provision of broadband and voice services to retail customers.

The Company’s Australian operating businesses are subject to other parts of the Broadcasting Services Act that may impact the Company’s ownership structure and operations and restrict its ability to take advantage of acquisition or investment opportunities.

Benchmark Regulation

Certain benchmarks provided by the Company’s OPIS business are subject to regulation in the U.K. and may become subject to similar evolving regulations in other jurisdictions if, for example, such benchmarks are used by supervised entities such as trading venues in the applicable jurisdiction. These regulations generally require, among other things, that benchmarks be provided by an authorized benchmark administrator. While the Company currently uses a third-party administrator, the Company intends to establish its own benchmark administrator, which will need to comply with a wide-ranging set of requirements regulating, among other things, conflicts of interest, complaints handling, input data, benchmark methodologies and other matters. A benchmark administrator must also publish a benchmark statement as well as a procedure concerning the actions to be taken in the event of changes to or the cessation of a benchmark which may be used in the applicable market. The OPIS business has also aligned its oil and commodities price reporting with the International Organisation of Securities Commission’s (“IOSCO’s”) Principles for Oil Reporting Agencies, which are intended to enhance the reliability of oil and commodity price assessments that are referenced in derivative contracts subject to regulation by IOSCO members.

Data Privacy and Security Regulation

The Company’s business activities are subject to laws and regulations governing the collection, use, sharing, protection and retention of personal data, which continue to evolve and have implications for how such data is managed. For example, in the U.S., certain of the Company’s websites, mobile apps and other online business activities are subject to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998, which prohibits the collection of personal information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission continues to expand its application of general consumer protection laws to commercial data practices, including to the use of personal and profiling data from online users to deliver targeted internet advertisements. More state and local governments are also expanding, enacting or proposing data privacy laws that govern the collection and use of personal data of their residents and increase penalties and in some cases, afford private rights of action to individuals for failure to comply, and most states have enacted legislation requiring businesses to provide notice to state agencies and to individuals whose personal information has been disclosed as a result of a data breach. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”) and California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”), which will amend the CCPA in January 2023, establish certain transparency rules, put greater restrictions on how the Company can collect, use and share personal information of California residents and provide California residents with certain rights regarding their personal information. The CCPA and forthcoming CPRA provide for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches. Similar legislation in Virginia, Colorado, Utah and Connecticut, all of which will go into effect in 2023, impose transparency and other obligations with respect to personal data of their respective residents and provide residents with similar rights, with the exception of a private right of action.

Similar laws and regulations have been implemented in many of the other jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including the European Union, the U.K. and Australia. For example, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which provides a uniform set of rules for personal data processing throughout the European Union, and the U.K. adopted the Data Protection Act of 2018 (the “UK DPA”) as well as the UK General Data Protection Regulation (“UK GDPR”). The GDPR, UK DPA and UK GDPR expand the regulation of the collection, processing, use, sharing and security of personal data, contain stringent conditions for consent from data subjects, strengthen the rights of individuals, including the right to have personal data deleted upon request, continue to restrict the trans-border flow of such data, require companies to conduct privacy impact assessments to evaluate data processing operations that are likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals, require mandatory data breach reporting and notification, significantly increase maximum penalties for non-compliance (up to 20 million Euros or 17 million pounds, as applicable, or 4% of an entity’s worldwide annual turnover in the preceding financial year, whichever is higher) and increase the enforcement powers of the data protection authorities. The 

11
European Union also plans to replace its existing e-Privacy Directive with a new e-Privacy Regulation that will complement the GDPR and amend certain rules, including with respect to cookies and other similar technologies that the Company utilizes to obtain information from visitors to the Company’s various digital offerings. The U.K. data protection framework is also expected to be reformed through the introduction of a Data Reform Bill.

The Company and some of its service providers rely on certain mechanisms, such as Standard Contractual Clauses, to address the European and U.K. data protection requirements for transfers of data that continue to evolve and are often subject to uncertainty and legal challenges. In June 2021, the European Commission adopted two new sets of European Union Standard Contractual Clauses, which regulate the relationship between controller and processor in accordance with the GDPR and international data transfers to a third country in the absence of an adequacy decision under the GDPR. The European Data Protection Board also adopted recommendations on measures that supplement data transfer tools to ensure compliance with the level of personal data protection required in Europe, including requirements for data exporters to assess the risks related to the transfer of personal data outside the European Economic Area and to implement, if necessary, additional contractual, organizational and technical measures such as encryption and pseudonymization. For data transfers subject to the UK GDPR, the International Data Transfer Agreement and the International Data Transfer Addendum to the European Union Standard Contractual Clauses have also been adopted. Such evolving frameworks could cause the Company to incur additional costs, require it to change business practices or affect the manner in which it provides its services.

In Australia, data privacy laws impose additional requirements on organizations that handle personal data by, among other things, requiring the disclosure of cross-border data transfers, placing restrictions on direct marketing practices and imposing mandatory data breach reporting, and additional data privacy and security requirements and industry standards are under consideration.

Industry participants in the U.S., Europe and Australia have taken steps to increase compliance with relevant industry-level standards and practices, including the implementation of self-regulatory regimes for online behavioral advertising that impose obligations on participating companies, such as the Company, to give consumers a better understanding of advertisements that are customized based on their online behavior.

The interpretation and application of data privacy and security laws are often uncertain and evolving in the United States and internationally. Moreover, data privacy and security laws vary between local, state, federal and international jurisdictions and may potentially conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The Company continues to monitor pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments, including any changes required in the Company’s data privacy and security compliance programs.

U.K. Press Regulation

As a result of the implementation of recommendations of the Leveson inquiry into the U.K. press, a Press Recognition Panel responsible for approving, overseeing and monitoring a new press regulatory body or bodies was established. Once approved by the Press Recognition Panel, the new press regulatory body or bodies would be responsible for overseeing participating publishers. In addition to the Press Recognition Panel, certain legislation provides that publishers who are not members of an approved regulator may be liable for exemplary damages in certain cases where such damages are not currently awarded and, if Section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 is commenced, the payment of costs for both parties in libel actions in certain circumstances.

Press regulator IMPRESS was recognized as an approved regulator by the Press Recognition Panel on October 25, 2016. However, publications representing the majority of the industry in the U.K., including News UK, entered into binding contracts to form an alternative regulator, the Independent Press Standards Organisation, or IPSO, in September 2014. IPSO currently has no plans to apply for recognition from the Press Recognition Panel. IPSO has an independent chairman and a 12-member board, the majority of which are independent. IPSO oversees the Editors’ Code of Practice, requires members to implement appropriate internal governance processes and requires self-reporting of any failures, provides a complaints handling service, has the ability to require publications to print corrections and has the power to investigate serious or systemic breaches of the Editors’ Code of Practice and levy fines of up to £1 million. The burdens IPSO imposes on its print media members, including the Company’s newspaper publishing businesses in the U.K., may result in competitive disadvantages versus other forms of media and may increase the costs of regulatory compliance.

U.K. Radio and Television Broadcasting Regulation

The Company’s radio stations in the U.K. and Ireland and its recently launched TalkTV are subject to regulation by the Office of Communications (Ofcom), the regulatory body for broadcasting in the U.K. In accordance with Ofcom’s regulations, the 

12
Company is required, among other things, to obtain and maintain licenses to operate these radio stations and TalkTV. Although the Company expects its licenses will, where relevant, be renewed in the ordinary course upon their expiration, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. Non-compliance by the Company with the requirements associated with such licenses or other applicable laws and regulations, including of Ofcom, could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation or other adverse regulatory actions.

Intellectual Property

The Company’s intellectual property assets include: copyrights in newspapers, books, video programming and other content and technologies; trademarks in names and logos; trade names; domain names; and licenses of intellectual property rights. These licenses include: (1) the sports programming rights licenses for the National Rugby League, Australian Football League, Cricket Australia, V8 Supercars, Formula One and other broadcasting rights described in Note 16 to the Financial Statements; (2) licenses from various third parties of patents and other technology for the set-top boxes and related operating and conditional access systems used in the Company’s subscription television business; (3) the trademark license for the Realtor.com® website address, as well as the REALTOR® trademark (the “NAR License”); and (4) the trademark licenses for the use of FOX formative trademarks used in the Company’s pay-TV business in Australia (the “Fox Licenses”). In addition, its intellectual property assets include patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products, business methods and/or services, none of which are material to its financial condition or results of operations. The Company derives value and revenue from its intellectual property assets through, among other things, print and digital newspaper and magazine subscriptions and sales, subscriptions to its pay-TV services and distribution and/or licensing of its television programming to other television services, the sale, distribution and/or licensing of print and digital books, the sale of subscriptions to its content and information services and the operation of websites and other digital properties.

The Company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property assets in the U.S., the U.K., Australia and other foreign territories. To protect these assets, the Company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and other laws and contract provisions. However, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. Piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products, services and content and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the Company’s intellectual property. The Company seeks to limit the threat of piracy by, among other means, preventing unauthorized access to its content through the use of programming content encryption, signal encryption and other security access devices and digital rights management software, as well as by obtaining site blocking orders against pirate streaming and torrent sites and a variety of other actions. The Company also seeks to limit such threat to its intellectual property by pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. However, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Therefore, the Company also engages in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement.

Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the Company’s intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations.

Raw Materials

As a major publisher of newspapers, magazines and books, the Company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. In order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the Company’s paper purchasing is done on a regional, volume purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. The Company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate, although it expects price increases in the near-term, and potentially beyond, due to inflationary pressures.

Human Capital

News Corp’s workforce is critical to the creation and delivery of its premium and trusted content and the success of the company. The Company’s ability to attract, retain and engage talented employees with the skills and capabilities needed by its businesses is an essential component of its long-term business strategy to become more global and more digital, and the capabilities of the Company’s workforce have continued to evolve along with the Company’s business and strategy. Key focus areas of the Company’s human capital management strategy are described below, and additional information can be found in its 

13
Environmental, Social and Governance Report, available on the Company’s website (which is not incorporated by reference herein). 

As of June 30, 2022, the Company had approximately 25,500 employees, of whom approximately 9,000 were located in the U.S., 5,500 were located in the U.K. and 8,000 were located in Australia. Of the Company’s employees, approximately 4,000 were represented by various employee unions. The contracts with such unions will expire during various times over the next several years. The Company believes its current relationships with employees are generally good. 

Culture and Values

The delivery of quality news, information and entertainment to customers is a passionate, principled and purposeful enterprise. The Company believes people around the globe turn to News Corp because they trust its dedication to those values and to conducting business with integrity. The Company is always mindful that one of its greatest assets is its reputation, and ethical conduct is part of the vision, strategy and fabric of the Company. The Company has established a Compliance Steering Committee that oversees the Company’s global compliance-related policies, protocols and guidance and reports directly to the Board of Directors through the Audit Committee. Performance on ethics and compliance and other environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) objectives is evaluated in determining the payout of incentive compensation for executive officers. In addition, all employees are required to regularly complete training on, and affirm compliance with, News Corp’s Standards of Business Conduct, which confirm the Company’s policy to conduct its affairs in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and observe the highest standards of business ethics. The Standards of Business Conduct are reviewed regularly and approved by the Board of Directors, and are complemented by business-unit and topic-specific policies and trainings, including with respect to workplace conduct, conflicts of interest, anti-corruption and anti-bribery and insider trading. 

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

The Company recognizes that the unique experiences and perspectives of its employees across its various businesses are critical to creating brands and products that reflect a diversity of viewpoints and engage and inspire customers all over the world, and the Company seeks to foster an environment where all employees can feel valued, included and empowered to bring great ideas to the table. To achieve this, the Company is committed to cultivating diversity and equity and broadening opportunities for inclusion across its businesses. As of December 31, 2021, women represented 47% of News Corp’s global workforce, 38% of its senior executives2 and 33% of its Board of Directors. The Company’s business units have implemented diversity, equity and inclusion programs and practices tailored to their respective industries and geographies. Although the Company has made progress in workforce diversity, equity and inclusion, it seeks to continuously improve in these areas through, among other things, its (1) talent attraction programs and practices, such as seeking to build diverse candidate pools and pipelines and promoting equitable recruitment and hiring practices, (2) employee development and training and (3) efforts to build a culture of inclusion, such as through mentoring and inclusivity programs. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors assesses the Company’s progress towards its diversity, equity and inclusion objectives on an annual basis and reports on its review to the Board of Directors.

Health, Safety and Wellbeing 

The health, safety and wellbeing of the Company’s employees is a top priority and vital component of the Company’s human capital management strategy. The Company’s occupational health and safety management systems are designed to ensure compliance with local and international environmental, health and safety standards and regulatory requirements. Its physical security infrastructure addresses security-based risks related to the workplace, employee travel, business operations, corporate events and the unique requirements of the newsroom, including through its Global Security Operations Center, which supports key international assignments and incident management. Employee wellbeing initiatives engage and support employees with targeted programs for mental and physical health. The Company’s programs and policies are benchmarked against industry best practices and are designed to be dynamic and account for the changing risks and circumstances facing its employees. The Company is also continuing to evolve its policies and protocols regarding in-person and remote work to address employee and business needs and preferences and the latest public health guidance. 

Compensation and Benefits

News Corp’s compensation and benefits programs, which vary based on business unit and geographic location, are focused on attracting, retaining and motivating the top talent necessary to achieve its mission in ways that reflect its diverse global 

2 Comprising the Company’s Executive Chairman, Chief Executive, headquarters leadership team and chief executive officers of its primary operating companies, and executives directly reporting to each of the foregoing.

14
workforce’s needs and priorities. In addition to competitive salaries, the Company and its businesses have established short- and long-term incentive programs designed to motivate and reward performance against key business objectives and facilitate retention. News Corp also provides a range of retirement benefits based on competitive regional benchmarks and other comprehensive benefit options to meet the needs of its employees, including healthcare benefits, tax advantaged savings vehicles, financial education, life and disability insurance, paid time off, flexible working arrangements, generous parental leave policies and other caregiving support and a company match for charitable donations. All of the Company’s business units regularly monitor pay practices, work towards advancing pay equity and are committed to maintaining rigorous benchmarking standards to identify pay gaps and proactively address imbalances.

Training and Development

News Corp invests significant resources in training and development programs designed to enable its employees to develop the skills and leadership necessary to execute on the Company’s strategy and engage and retain top talent. News Corp employees have access to a range of training opportunities, including workshops and classes on a variety of topics, job-specific training and other continuing education resources. The Company further supports and develops its employees through career planning resources and programs that build and strengthen employee leadership skills. In addition, the Company and its businesses have implemented programs to support regular performance reviews for employees to highlight their strengths and identify the skills and growth necessary to advance their careers. These programs help the Company identify and invest in the next generation of leadership and represent an important component in the development of its talent pipeline.

Explanatory Note Regarding Certain Metrics

Unique Users

For purposes of this Annual Report, the Company counts unique users the first time an individual accesses a product’s website using a browser during a calendar month and the first time an individual accesses a product’s mobile app using a mobile device during a calendar month. If the user accesses more than one of a product’s desktop websites, mobile websites and/or mobile apps, the first access to each such website or app is counted as a separate unique user. In addition, users accessing a product’s websites through different browsers, users who clear their browser cache at any time and users who access a product’s websites and apps through different devices are also counted as separate unique users. For a group of products such as WSJDN, a user accessing different products within the group is counted as a separate unique user for each product accessed.

Broadcast Subscribers

Broadcast subscribers consist of residential subscribers and commercial subscribers, which are calculated as described below.

Residential Subscribers

Total number of residential subscribers represents total residential subscribers to the Company’s broadcast pay-TV services, including subscribers obtained through third-party distribution relationships.

Commercial Subscribers

Commercial subscribers for the Company’s pay-TV business are calculated as residential equivalent business units, which are derived by dividing total recurring revenue from these subscribers by an estimated average Broadcast ARPU which is held constant through the year. Total number of commercial subscribers represents total commercial subscribers to the Company’s broadcast pay-TV services, including subscribers obtained through third-party distribution relationships.

Broadcast ARPU

The Company calculates Broadcast ARPU for its pay-TV business by dividing broadcast package revenues for the period, net of customer credits, promotions and other discounts, by average residential subscribers for the period and dividing by the number of months in the period. Average residential subscribers, or “Average Broadcast Subscribers,” for a given period is calculated by first adding the beginning and ending residential subscribers for each month in the period and dividing by two and then adding each of those monthly average subscriber numbers and dividing by the number of months in the period.

15
Broadcast Subscriber Churn

The Company calculates Broadcast Subscriber Churn for its pay-TV business by dividing the total number of disconnected residential subscribers for the period, net of reconnects and transfers, by the Average Broadcast Subscribers for the period, calculated as described above. This amount is then divided by the number of days in the period and multiplied by 365 days to present churn on an annual basis.

Paid Subscribers

A paid subscriber to the Company’s streaming services is one for which the Company recognized subscription revenue. A subscriber ceases to be a paid subscriber as of their effective cancellation date or as a result of a failed payment method. Paid subscribers excludes customers receiving service for no charge under certain new subscriber promotions.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS