ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

COMMODITY PRICE RISK

GENERAL

Occidental’s results are sensitive to fluctuations in oil, NGL and natural gas prices. Price changes at current global prices and levels of production affect Occidental’s budgeted 2022 pre-tax annual income by approximately $200 million for a $1 per barrel change in oil prices and approximately $30 million for a $1 per barrel change in NGL prices. If domestic natural gas prices varied by $0.10 per Mcf, it would have an estimated annual effect on Occidental’s budgeted 2022 pre-tax income of approximately $40 million. These price-change sensitivities include the impact of PSC and similar contract volume changes on income. If production levels change in the future, the sensitivity of Occidental’s results to prices also will change. Marketing results are sensitive to price changes of oil, natural gas and, to a lesser degree, other commodities. A $0.25 change in the Midland-to-Gulf-Coast oil spreads impacts budgeted 2022 operating cash flows by approximately $65 million.

Occidental’s results are also sensitive to fluctuations in chemical prices. A variation in chlorine and caustic soda prices of $10 per ton would have a pre-tax annual effect on income of approximately $10 million and $30 million, respectively. A variation in PVC prices of $0.01 per lb. would have a pre-tax annual effect on income of approximately $30 million. Historically, over time, product price changes have tracked raw material and feedstock product price changes, somewhat mitigating the effect of price changes on margins.

Occidental uses forwards derivative instruments to manage its exposure to commodity price fluctuations for oil and natural gas and swaps to manage interest rate risks.

RISK MANAGEMENT

Occidental conducts its risk management activities for marketing and trading under the controls and governance of its risk control policies. The controls under these policies are implemented and enforced by a risk management group which monitors risk by providing an independent and separate evaluation and check. Members of the risk management group report to the Corporate Vice President and Treasurer. Controls for these activities include limits on value at risk, limits on credit, limits on total notional trade value, segregation of duties, delegation of authority, daily price verifications, reporting to senior management on various risk measures and a number of other policy and procedural controls.

FAIR VALUE OF MARKETING DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS

Occidental carries derivative contracts it enters into in connection with its marketing activities at fair value. Fair values for these contracts are derived from Level 1 and Level 2 sources. The fair values in future maturity periods are insignificant. 

The following table shows the fair value of Occidental’s derivatives (excluding collateral), segregated by maturity periods and by methodology of fair value estimation:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

QUANTITATIVE INFORMATION

Occidental uses value at risk to estimate the potential effects of changes in fair values of commodity contracts used in trading activities. This measure determines the maximum potential negative one day change in fair value with a 95% level of confidence. Additionally, Occidental uses complementary trading limits including position and tenor limits and maintains liquid positions as a result of which market risk typically can be neutralized or mitigated on short notice. As a result of these controls, Occidental believes that the market risk of its trading activities is not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on its performance.

56 OXY 2021 FORM 10-K

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES

INTEREST RATE RISK

GENERAL

Occidental pays fixed interest rates and receives a floating interest rate indexed to three-month LIBOR on its interest rate swaps. The remaining swaps have mandatory termination dates in September 2022 and 2023 with notional amounts of $275 million and $450 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2021, Occidental had a net liability of approximately $428 million based on the fair value of the swaps of negative $751 million netted against $323 million in posted cash collateral. A 25-basis point decrease in implied LIBOR rates over the term of the swaps would result in an additional liability of approximately $88 million on these swaps.

As of December 31, 2021, Occidental had variable rate debt with a notional value of $68 million outstanding. A 25-basis point increase in LIBOR interest rates would increase gross interest expense approximately $1.7 million per year.

As of December 31, 2021, Occidental had fixed rate debt with a fair value of $31.1 billion outstanding. A 25-basis point change in Treasury rates would change the fair value of the fixed rate debt approximately $629 million.

The table below provides information about Occidental’s long-term debt obligations. Debt amounts represent principal payments by maturity date.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Excluded net unamortized debt premiums of $670 million and debt issuance costs of $135 million.

(b)In January 2022, Occidental used cash on hand to repay $101 million in outstanding 2.600% senior notes due April 2022 at face value. 

FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK

Occidental’s international operations have limited currency risk. Occidental manages its exposure primarily by balancing monetary assets and liabilities and limiting cash positions in foreign currencies to levels necessary for operating purposes. A vast majority of international oil sales are denominated in United States dollars. Additionally, all of Occidental’s consolidated international oil and gas subsidiaries have the United States dollar as the functional currency. The effect of exchange rates on transactions in foreign currencies is included in periodic income.

CREDIT RISK

The majority of Occidental’s counterparty credit risk is related to the physical delivery of energy commodities to its customers and any inability of these customers to meet their settlement commitments. Occidental manages credit risk by selecting counterparties that it believes to be financially strong, by entering into netting arrangements with counterparties and by requiring collateral or other credit risk mitigants, as appropriate. Occidental actively evaluates the creditworthiness of its counterparties, assigns appropriate credit limits and monitors credit exposures against those assigned limits. Occidental also enters into futures contracts through regulated exchanges with select clearinghouses and brokers, which are subject to minimal credit risk, if any.

Certain OTC derivative instruments contain credit-risk-contingent features, primarily tied to credit ratings for Occidental or its counterparties, which may affect the amount of collateral that each party would need to post. The fair value of derivative instruments with credit-risk-contingent features, that were net liabilities as of December 31, 2021 was $107 million (net of $323 million collateral) and $104 million (net of $374 million collateral) as of December 31, 2020. Credit-risk-contingent features are primarily related to interest rate swaps.

As of December 31, 2021, the substantial majority of the credit exposures were with investment grade counterparties. Occidental believes its exposure to credit-related losses as of December 31, 2021, was not material and losses associated with credit risk have been insignificant for all years presented.

OXY 2021 FORM 10-K 57

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

INDEX

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA