ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. To manage these market risks, we employ derivatives according to established policies and procedures, including foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps. We do not use derivatives for speculative purposes. We are also exposed to credit risk on our accounts receivable and finance receivable portfolio.

Foreign Exchange Risk

Our foreign currency risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries and transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans, transactions denominated in currencies other than a location’s functional currency and forecasted inventory purchases between affiliates and third parties. Our objective in managing exposure to foreign currency is to reduce the volatility in earnings and cash flows associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The principal currencies actively hedged are the British Pound, Canadian Dollar and the Euro. 

At December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had outstanding foreign currency exchange rate contracts to mitigate the currency risk associated with forecasted inventory purchases between affiliates and third parties. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and changes in fair value are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders’ equity. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, we also had outstanding foreign currency exchange rate contracts to mitigate the currency risk associated with intercompany loans and related interest denominated in foreign currencies. These contracts are not designated as hedging instruments and changes in fair value of the derivative contract and transaction gains and losses associated with the revaluation of the intercompany loans are recorded in earnings. Changes in the fair values of foreign currency derivative contracts recognized in earnings are generally offset by transaction gains and losses on the underlying intercompany loans. 

Interest Rate Risk

We are exposed to interest rate risk principally in relation to our variable-rate debt borrowings. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, 26% and 27% or our debt was at variable rates, respectively. The weighted average interest rate of our variable rate debt at December 31, 2021 and 2020 was 3.1% and 4.5%, respectively. A 100 basis point change in the effective interest rate of our variable rate debt in 2021 would have increased interest expense approximately $6 million. 

We also maintain a significant investment portfolio comprised of fixed-rate interest-bearing money market funds, government and municipal securities, corporate securities and mortgage and asset-backed securities. Changes in interest rates impact the fair value of these investments; however, these securities are designated as available-for-sale, and changes in fair value due to changes in interest rates are recognized as accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of equity, and does not impact net income. We have the intent and ability to hold securities to maturity and therefore, do not expect to recognize impairment losses on investment securities in an unrealized loss position.

Credit Risk

We are exposed to credit risk on our accounts receivable and finance receivable balances. This risk is mitigated due to our large, diverse client base, dispersed over various geographic regions and industrial sectors. No single client comprised more than 10% of our consolidated net sales in 2021 or 2020. We maintain provisions for potential credit losses based on historical experience, age of 

27

receivable, current economic conditions and future outlook and other relevant factors that may impact our customers’ ability to pay. We continually evaluate the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses and adjust as necessary.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA