Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Interest rate risk—We are exposed to interest rate risk, primarily associated with our long-term debt, including current maturities. The following table presents the scheduled installment amounts and related weighted-average interest rates of our long-term debt instruments by contractual maturity date. The scheduled installment amounts include the contractual principal and interest payments resulting from previously restructured debt. The following table presents information as of December 31, 2021 for each of the five years in the period ending December 31, 2026 and thereafter (in millions, except interest rate percentages):[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the fair value of our outstanding debt was $5.66 billion and $4.82 billion, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the fair value of our debt increased by $841 million due to the following: (a) a net increase of $1.24 billion resulting from changes in the market prices of our outstanding debt, (b) a net increase of $117 million due to the issuance of the 4.00% senior guaranteed exchangeable bonds due December 2025 in private exchanges for the 0.50% exchangeable senior bonds due January 2023, partially offset by (c) a decrease of $474 million due to repayments of debt at scheduled maturities and (d) a decrease of $43 million due to debt repurchased in the open market. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 9—Debt.

- 39 - 
The majority of our cash equivalents is subject to variable interest rates or short-term interest rates and such cash equivalents would earn commensurately higher rates of return if interest rates increase.

Currency exchange rate risk—We are exposed to currency exchange rate risk primarily related to employee compensation costs and purchasing costs that are denominated in currencies other than our functional currency, the U.S. dollar. We use a variety of techniques to minimize the exposure to currency exchange rate risk, including the structuring of customer contract payment terms and occasional use of forward exchange contracts. Our primary tool to manage currency exchange rate risk involves structuring customer contracts to provide for payment in both U.S. dollars and local currency. The payment portion denominated in local currency is based on anticipated local currency requirements over the contract term. Due to various factors, including customer acceptance, local banking laws, national content requirements, other statutory requirements, local currency convertibility, local inflation and revenue efficiency, actual local currency needs may vary from those realized in the customer contracts, resulting in partial exposure to currency exchange rate risk. The currency exchange effect resulting from our international operations generally has not had a material impact on our operating results. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 19—Risk Concentration.

- 40 - 
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data