Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following information should be read in conjunction with the information contained in “Part I. Item 1. Business,” “Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors” and the audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. The following discussion of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources includes comparisons for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. For a discussion, including comparisons, of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, see “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, filed with the United States (“U.S.”) Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2021.

Business

Transocean Ltd. (together with its subsidiaries and predecessors, unless the context requires otherwise, “Transocean,” “we,” “us” or “our”) is a leading international provider of offshore contract drilling services for oil and gas wells. As of February 14, 2022, we owned or had partial ownership interests in and operated 37 mobile offshore drilling units, consisting of 27 ultra-deepwater floaters and 10 harsh environment floaters. As of February 14, 2022, we were constructing two ultra-deepwater drillships.

We provide, as our primary business, contract drilling services in a single operating segment, which involves contracting our mobile offshore drilling rigs, related equipment and work crews to drill oil and gas wells. We specialize in technically demanding regions of the global offshore drilling business with a particular focus on ultra-deepwater and harsh environment drilling services. Our drilling fleet is one of the most versatile fleets in the world, consisting of drillships and semisubmersible floaters used in support of offshore drilling activities and offshore support services on a worldwide basis.

We perform contract drilling services by deploying our high-specification fleet in a single, global market that is geographically dispersed in oil and gas exploration and development areas throughout the world. Although rigs can be moved from one region to another, the cost of moving rigs and the availability of rig-moving vessels may cause the supply and demand balance to fluctuate somewhat between regions. Still, significant variations between regions do not tend to persist long term because of rig mobility. The location of our rigs and the allocation of resources to operate, build or upgrade our rigs are determined by the activities and needs of our customers.

Significant Events

Share issuance—In June 2021, we commenced an at the market equity offering program (the “ATM Program”). In the year ended December 31, 2021, we received aggregate cash proceeds of $158 million, net of issue costs, for the aggregate sale of 36.1 million shares under the ATM Program. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and uses of liquidity.”

Shipyard financing arrangement—In June 2021, Transocean Offshore Deepwater Holdings Limited, a Cayman Islands company and our wholly owned indirect subsidiary, entered into credit agreements with Jurong Shipyard Pte Ltd. establishing facilities (the “Shipyard Loans”) to finance the final payments expected to be owed to the shipyard upon delivery of the ultra-deepwater floaters Deepwater Atlas and Deepwater Titan. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources.”

Debt exchanges—In February 2021, we completed private exchanges (the “2021 Private Exchange”) of $323 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding 0.50% exchangeable senior bonds due January 2023 (the “0.50% Exchangeable Senior Bonds”) for $294 million aggregate principal amount of the 4.00% senior guaranteed exchangeable bonds due December 2025 (the “4.00% Senior Guaranteed Exchangeable Bonds”), together with an aggregate cash payment of $11 million. In the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized a gain of $51 million associated with the retirement of exchanged debt. See “—Operating Results” and “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and uses of liquidity.”

Early debt retirement—In the year ended December 31, 2021, we repurchased in the open market $79 million aggregate principal amount of our debt securities for an aggregate cash payment of $79 million. In January 2022, we repaid the then-outstanding $18 million aggregate principal amount of the 5.52% Senior Secured Notes due May 2022 (the “5.52% Senior Secured Notes”) early for an aggregate cash payment of $18 million. See “—Operating Results” and “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and uses of liquidity.”

Dispositions—During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed the sale of one harsh environment floater, along with related assets, for which we received $4 million aggregate net cash proceeds and recognized an aggregate net loss of $57 million. See “—Operating Results.”

Outlook

Drilling market—Our overall outlook for the offshore drilling industry has improved over the past year and remains positive, particularly for high-specification assets, such as those we own and operate. During the second half of 2021, our customers’ interest in deepwater and harsh environment offshore projects was renewed due to numerous favorable factors, such as sustained higher commodity prices and comparably lower carbon intensity compared to other sources of fossil fuel. South America, including Guyana, the 

- 27 - 
U.S. Gulf of Mexico and, increasingly, West Africa remain key ultra-deepwater market sectors, while Norway continues to represent the largest harsh environment market.

In addition, in 2021, we observed continued strong tendering activity for Asia and Australia. Licensing activity also indicated an increased interest in these areas as energy companies looked to explore and develop new prospects. Certain customers began to increase their exploration, production and reserve replacement activities by restarting delayed projects and commencing new campaigns. We have seen an acceleration in this trend in early 2022. While we expect this to continue in the near term, and potentially longer, it depends upon many variables, including increased global demand for hydrocarbons, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on consumer activity, the actions by some governments and regulators intended to curtail existing and future drilling activities, and other factors.

Offshore drilling activity is increasing in almost every ultra-deepwater market, and due to attrition of the global offshore fleet over the last several years, there are significantly fewer available drilling units and, particularly, an increasing scarcity of the highest specification drilling units as customers look to secure the best equipment for their projects. In the North Sea harsh environment market, an accelerated level of recovery is anticipated in 2023 through 2026 as the effect of Norway tax incentive programs is realized by our customers.

Global energy demand is expected to increase in member and non-member countries of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. Non-member countries, in particular, are expected to experience the largest population growth and most significant increases in living standards, creating a compounding effect on energy consumption. We believe that this forecasted increase in global energy demand will support an increase in demand for oil and gas. In the context of the sharp decline in production activities that resulted from the pandemic and the lack of investment in exploration and production activities over the past seven years, we believe an increase in demand will precipitate substantial supply constraints that are not easily reversed without significant new investment in drilling.

With deepwater and harsh environment fields offering increasingly competitive returns, combined with their comparably low carbon intensity of production, we expect a significant portion of required spending in fossil fuel development will be allocated to deepwater and harsh environment projects. As the hydrocarbon supply-demand balance further improves, we expect sustained prices to increase demand for our high-specification fleet of assets and, because there are now fewer offshore drilling rigs than in recent years, further improvement of dayrates.

As of February 14, 2022, our contract backlog was $6.47 billion compared to $7.07 billion as of October 25, 2021. The risks of drilling project delays, contract renegotiations and contract terminations and cancellations have diminished as oil prices have improved and stabilized.

Fleet status—We refer to the availability of our rigs in terms of the uncommitted fleet rate. The uncommitted fleet rate is defined as the number of uncommitted days divided by the total number of rig calendar days in the measurement period, expressed as a percentage. An uncommitted day is defined as a calendar day during which a rig is idle or stacked, is not contracted to a customer and is not committed to a shipyard. The uncommitted fleet rates exclude the effect of priced options. As of February 14, 2022, our uncommitted fleet rates for each of the five years in the period ending December 31, 2026 were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Performance and Other Key Indicators

Contract backlog—We believe our industry leading contract backlog sets us apart from the competition and provides indicators of our future revenue-earning opportunities. Contract backlog is defined as the maximum contractual operating dayrate multiplied by the number of days remaining in the firm contract period, excluding revenues for mobilization, demobilization, contract preparation, other incentive provisions or reimbursement revenues, which are not expected to be significant to our contract drilling revenues. The contract backlog represents the maximum contract drilling revenues that can be earned considering the contractual operating dayrate in effect during the firm contract period. The contract backlog for our fleet was as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our contract backlog includes only firm commitments, including amounts associated with our contracted newbuild units under construction, which are represented by signed drilling contracts or, in some cases, by other definitive agreements awaiting contract execution. It does not include conditional agreements and options to extend firm commitments.

The average contractual dayrate relative to our contract backlog is defined as the average maximum contractual operating dayrate to be earned per operating day in the measurement period. An operating day is defined as a day for which a rig is contracted to earn a 

- 28 - 
dayrate during the firm contract period after operations commence. At February 14, 2022, the contract backlog and average contractual dayrates for our fleet were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The actual amount of revenues earned and the actual periods in which revenues are earned will differ from the amounts and periods shown in the tables above due to various factors, including shipyard and maintenance projects, unplanned downtime and other factors that result in lower applicable dayrates than the full contractual operating dayrate. Additional factors that could affect the amount and timing of actual revenues to be recognized include customer liquidity issues and contract terminations that may be available to our customers under certain circumstances.

The contractual operating dayrate may be higher than the actual dayrate we ultimately receive because an alternative contractual dayrate, such as a waiting-on-weather rate, repair rate, standby rate or force majeure rate, may apply under certain circumstances. The contractual operating dayrate may also be higher than the actual dayrate we ultimately receive because of a number of factors, including rig downtime or suspension of operations. In certain contracts, the actual dayrate may be reduced to zero if, for example, repairs extend beyond a stated period of time. See “Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks related to our business—Our current backlog of contract drilling revenues may not be fully realized.”

Average daily revenue—We believe average daily revenue provides a comparative measurement unit for our revenue-earning performance. Average daily revenue is defined as operating revenues, excluding revenues for contract terminations, reimbursements and contract intangible amortization, earned per operating day. The average daily revenue for our fleet was as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our average daily revenue fluctuates relative to market conditions and our revenue efficiency. The average daily revenue may be affected by incentive performance bonuses or penalties or demobilization fee revenues. Our total fleet average daily revenue is affected by the mix of rig classes being operated. Midwater floaters, for example, which we no longer operate, are typically contracted at lower dayrates compared to ultra-deepwater floaters and harsh environment floaters. Revenues for a contracted newbuild unit are included in the calculation when the rig commences operations upon acceptance by the customer. We remove rigs from the calculation upon disposal or classification as held for sale, unless we continue to operate rigs subsequent to sale, in which case we remove the rigs at the time of completion or novation of the contract.

Revenue efficiency—We believe revenue efficiency measures our ability to ultimately convert our contract backlog into revenues. Revenue efficiency is defined as actual operating revenues, excluding revenues for contract terminations and reimbursements, for the measurement period divided by the maximum revenue calculated for the measurement period, expressed as a percentage. Maximum revenue is defined as the greatest amount of contract drilling revenues the drilling unit could earn for the measurement period, excluding revenues for incentive provisions, reimbursements and contract terminations. The revenue efficiency rates for our fleet were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our revenue efficiency rate varies due to revenues earned under alternative contractual dayrates, such as a waiting-on-weather rate, repair rate, standby rate, force majeure rate or zero rate, that may apply under certain circumstances. Our revenue efficiency rate is 

- 29 - 
also affected by incentive performance bonuses or penalties. We include newbuilds in the calculation when the rigs commence operations upon acceptance by the customer. We exclude rigs that are not operating under contract, such as those that are stacked.

Rig utilization—We present our rig utilization as an indicator of our ability to secure work for our fleet. Rig utilization is defined as the total number of operating days divided by the total number of rig calendar days in the measurement period, expressed as a percentage. The rig utilization rates for our fleet were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our rig utilization rate declines as a result of idle and stacked rigs and during shipyard and mobilization periods to the extent these rigs are not earning revenues. We include newbuilds in the calculation when the rigs commence operations upon acceptance by the customer. We remove rigs from the calculation upon disposal or classification as held for sale. Accordingly, our rig utilization can increase when we remove idle or stacked units from our fleet.

Operating Results

Year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020

The following is an analysis of our operating results. See “—Performance and Other Key Indicators” for definitions of operating days, average daily revenue, revenue efficiency and rig utilization.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

“nm” means not meaningful.

Contract drilling revenues—Contract drilling revenues decreased for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $200 million resulting from the settlement of disputes and payments for early termination of a contract in the year ended December 31, 2020 with no comparable activity in the current year period, (b) approximately $185 million resulting from rigs that were idle or in shipyard preparing for contracts in the current year, (c) approximately $155 million resulting from rigs that were stacked in the prior year and (d) approximately $115 million resulting from rigs that were sold. These decreases were partially offset by the following increases: (a) approximately $55 million resulting from increased average daily revenue and (b) approximately $5 million resulting from higher revenue efficiency.

Costs and expenses—Operating and maintenance costs and expenses decreased for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $145 million resulting from rigs that were stacked in the prior year, (b) approximately $95 million resulting from rigs that were sold, (c) approximately $55 million resulting from Transocean Norge being idle, (d) approximately $20 million resulting from litigation and settlement costs in the prior year, (d) approximately 

- 30 - 
$20 million resulting from severance costs of offshore and onshore personnel, (e) approximately $15 million resulting from onshore personnel costs, excluding severance, (f) approximately $10 million resulting from other changes in rig activity and (g) approximately $10 million resulting from reduced costs related to COVID-19 mitigation. These decreases were partially offset by the following increases: (a) approximately $28 million resulting from our allowance for excess materials and supplies due to our identification of certain items that were in excess of our expected future usage based on our current market outlook, (b) approximately $35 million resulting from increased personnel costs, primarily due to unfavorable exchange rates, and (c) approximately $20 million resulting from shipyard and maintenance costs primarily driven by out-of-service activities.

Depreciation and amortization expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to approximately $22 million resulting from rigs that were sold and approximately $16 million resulting from assets that had reached the end of their useful lives or had been retired.

General and administrative expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $13 million resulting from reduced personnel costs, including severance, related to our cost savings plan implemented in the year ended December 31, 2020 and (b) approximately $5 million resulting from reduced costs for information systems and technology, partially offset by (c) approximately $6 million resulting from increased strategy and innovation costs.

Loss on impairment or disposal of assets—In the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized a loss on the impairment of assets, including an aggregate net loss of $556 million associated with assets that we determined were impaired at the time we classified them as held for sale, a loss of $31 million associated with the impairment of our midwater floater asset group and a loss of $10 million associated with the impairment of other assets.

In the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized an aggregate net loss of $57 million, primarily associated with the sale of a harsh environment floater and related assets. In the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized an aggregate net loss of $61 million associated with the sale of one ultra-deepwater floater, three harsh environment floaters and three midwater floaters, along with related assets. In the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we recognized an aggregate net loss of $5 million and $23 million, respectively, associated with the disposal of assets unrelated to rig sales.

Other income and expense—Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, decreased in the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to a decrease of $145 million resulting from debt early retired, repaid or restructured, partially offset by an increase of $19 million resulting from debt issued.

In the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized an aggregate net gain of $51 million associated with the retirement of $323 million aggregate principal amount of the 0.50% Exchangeable Senior Bonds as a result of the 2021 Private Exchange. In the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized a net gain on restructuring and retirement of debt, primarily due to the following: (a) an aggregate gain of $427 million associated with the restructuring of debt in the private exchange transactions in August 2020 (the “2020 Private Exchange”) and the exchange offers in September 2020 (the “2020 Exchange Offers”), (b) an aggregate gain of $135 million associated with the retirement of $360 million aggregate principal amount of our debt securities in the tender offers in November 2020, (c) an aggregate gain of $36 million associated with the retirement of $147 million aggregate principal amount of our debt securities repurchased in the open market, partially offset by (d) a loss of $65 million associated with the full redemption of the 9.00% senior notes due July 2023 (the “9.00% Senior Notes”).

Other income, net, increased in the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to the following: (a) decreased loss of $22 million resulting from impairment of our equity investment in Orion Holdings (Cayman) Limited (“Orion”), (b) increased income of $24 million resulting from a settlement of litigation and other claims, (c) increased income of $23 million related to the non-service components of net periodic benefit income and (d) decreased losses of $7 million resulting from net changes to currency exchange rates, partially offset by (e) decreased income of $25 million related to our investment in Orion and (f) decreased income of $4 million related to our dual-activity patent.

Income tax expense—In the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, our effective tax rate was (25.7) percent and (5.1) percent, respectively, based on loss before income tax expense. In the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the aggregate effect of discrete period tax items was a net tax expense of $47 million and benefit of $91 million, respectively. In the year ended December 31, 2021, such discrete items included the effect of tax law changes in Switzerland and jurisdictional ownership changes of certain assets, loss on disposal of assets, expiration and settlements of various uncertain tax positions, gain on retirement of debt, changes to our allowance for excess materials and loss on impairment of an equity investment. In the year ended December 31, 2020, such discrete items included losses on impairment and disposal of assets, gain on restructuring and retirement of debt, revenues recognized for the settlement of disputes, the loss on impairment of an equity investment, the carryback of net operating losses in the U.S., including the release of valuation allowances previously recorded, settlements and expirations of various uncertain tax positions and accruals for withholding taxes. In the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, our effective tax rate, excluding discrete items, was (18.5) percent and (23.4) percent, respectively, based on loss before income tax expense. In the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, our effective tax rate increased primarily due changes in the relative blend of income from operations in certain jurisdictions.

Due to our operating activities and organizational structure, our income tax expense does not change proportionally with our income before income taxes. Significant decreases in our income before income taxes typically lead to higher effective tax rates, while significant 

- 31 - 
increases in income before income taxes can lead to lower effective tax rates, subject to the other factors impacting income tax expense noted above. With respect to the effective tax rate calculation for the year ended December 31, 2021, a significant portion of our income tax expense was generated in countries in which income taxes are imposed or treated to be imposed on gross revenues, with the most significant of these countries being Angola and India. Conversely, the countries in which we incurred the most significant income taxes during this period that were based on income before income tax include the U.S., Switzerland, Norway and Hungary. Our rig operating structures further complicate our tax calculations, especially in instances where we have more than one operating structure for the taxing jurisdiction and, thus, more than one method of calculating taxes depending on the operating structure utilized by the rig under the contract.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Sources and uses of cash

At December 31, 2021, we had $976 million in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and $436 million in restricted cash and cash equivalents. In the year ended December 31, 2021, our primary sources of cash were net cash provided by operating activities and net cash proceeds from the issuance of shares under the ATM Program. Our primary uses of cash were debt repayments and capital expenditures.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash provided by operating activities increased primarily due to (a) reduced cash paid for interest, (b) the cash payment of $125 million released from restricted cash to satisfy our remaining obligations under the Plaintiff Steering Committee settlement agreement in June 2020 with no comparable activity in the current year and (c) reduced cash paid for income taxes.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash used in investing activities decreased primarily due to (a) reduced capital expenditures unrelated to our two newbuilds under construction and (b) reduced investments in unconsolidated affiliates, partially offset by (c) increased investments in loans to our unconsolidated affiliates and (d) reduced proceeds from disposal of assets.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash used in financing activities decreased primarily due to (a) reduced cash used to repay debt, primarily as a result of the full redemption of $714 million aggregate principal amount of the 9.00% Senior Notes in February 2020 and (b) aggregate net cash proceeds from the issuance of 36.1 million shares under the ATM Program in the current year, partially offset by (c) net cash proceeds from the issuance of the 8.00% senior notes due February 2027 (the “8.00% Senior Notes”) in January 2020.

Sources and uses of liquidity

Overview—We expect to use existing unrestricted cash balances, internally generated cash flows, borrowings under the Shipyard Loans or the Secured Credit Facility, as defined below, or proceeds from the disposal of assets, the issuance of additional debt or the issuance of additional shares under the ATM Program to fulfill anticipated obligations, which may include capital expenditures, working capital 

- 32 - 
and other operational requirements, scheduled debt maturities or other payments. We may consider establishing additional financing arrangements with banks or other capital providers, and subject to market conditions and other factors, we may be required to provide collateral for any such future financing arrangements. We continue to evaluate additional potential liability management transactions in connection with our ongoing efforts to prudently manage our capital structure and improve our liquidity. In each case subject to then existing market conditions and our expected liquidity needs, among other factors, we may continue to use existing unrestricted cash balances, internally generated cash flows and proceeds from asset sales to pursue liability management transactions, including among others, purchasing or exchanging one or more existing series of our debt securities in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, through tender offers or through exchange offers. Any future purchases, exchanges or other transactions may be on the same terms or on terms that are more or less favorable to holders than the terms of any prior transaction, including the exchange transactions completed in the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. We can provide no assurance as to which, if any, of these alternatives, or combinations thereof, we may choose to pursue in the future, if at all, or as to the timing with respect to any future transactions.

The ongoing effect of the COVID-19 pandemic, including virus variants, and the volatility in oil prices could have significant adverse consequences for general economic, financial and business conditions, as well as for our business and financial position and the business and financial position of our customers and suppliers and may, among other things, impact our ability to generate cash flows from operations, access the capital markets on acceptable terms or at all, and affect our future need or ability to borrow under our Secured Credit Facility. In addition to our potential sources of funding, the effects of such global events may impact our liquidity or need to alter our allocation or sources of capital, implement further cost reduction measures and change our financial strategy.

We have generated positive cash flows from operating activities over recent years and, although we cannot provide assurances, we currently expect that such cash flows will continue to be positive over the next year. However, among other factors, if the drilling market deteriorates, or if we experience poor operating results, or if we incur expenses to, for example, reactivate, stack or otherwise assure the marketability of our fleet, cash flows from operations may be reduced or negative.

Our ability and willingness to access the debt and equity markets is a function of a variety of events, including, among others, general economic conditions, industry conditions, market conditions and market perceptions of us and our industry and credit rating agencies’ views of our debt. The rating of the majority of our long-term debt (“Debt Rating”) is below investment grade. The Debt Rating is causing us to experience increased fees and interest rates under our Secured Credit Facility and agreements governing certain of our senior notes. Future downgrades may further restrict our ability to access the debt market for sources of capital and may negatively impact the cost of such capital at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. An economic downturn like the one we are currently experiencing could have an impact on the lenders participating in our credit facilities or on our customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us.

Secured Credit Facility—As of December 31, 2021, we have a $1.33 billion secured revolving credit facility established under a bank credit agreement (as amended from time to time, the “Secured Credit Facility”), which is scheduled to expire on June 22, 2023. The Secured Credit Facility is guaranteed by Transocean Ltd. and certain wholly owned subsidiaries. The Secured Credit Facility is secured by, among other things, a lien on nine of our ultra-deepwater floaters and two of our harsh environment floaters. The maximum borrowing capacity will be reduced to $1.00 billion if, and so long as, our leverage ratio, measured as the aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, exceeds 10.00 to 1.00. The Secured Credit Facility contains covenants that, among other things, include maintenance of a minimum guarantee coverage ratio of 3.0 to 1.0, a minimum collateral coverage ratio of 2.1 to 1.0, a maximum debt to capitalization ratio of 0.60 to 1.00 and minimum liquidity of $500 million. The Secured Credit Facility also restricts the ability of Transocean Ltd. and certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things, merge, consolidate or otherwise make changes to the corporate structure, incur liens, incur additional indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates and pay dividends and other distributions. In order to borrow under the Secured Credit Facility, we must, at the time of the borrowing request, not be in default under the Secured Credit Facility and make certain representations and warranties, including with respect to compliance with laws and solvency, to the lenders. Repayment of borrowings under the Secured Credit Facility are subject to acceleration upon the occurrence of an event of default. Under the agreements governing certain of our debt and finance lease, we are also subject to various covenants, including restrictions on creating liens, engaging in sale/leaseback transactions and engaging in certain merger, consolidation or reorganization transactions. A default under our public debt indentures, the agreements governing our senior secured notes, our finance lease contract or any other debt owed to unaffiliated entities that exceeds $125 million could trigger a default under the Secured Credit Facility and, if not waived by the lenders, could cause us to lose access to the Secured Credit Facility. At February 14, 2022, we had no borrowings outstanding, $16 million of letters of credit issued, and we had $1.32 billion of available borrowing capacity under the Secured Credit Facility.

Shipyard financing arrangement—In June 2021, we and Jurong Shipyard Pte Ltd. entered into the Shipyard Loans to finance all or a portion of the final payments expected to be owed to the shipyard upon delivery of the ultra-deepwater floaters Deepwater Atlas and Deepwater Titan. We expect to borrow approximately $370 million upon delivery of Deepwater Atlas in the six months ending June 30, 2022, and we expect to borrow approximately $90 million upon delivery of Deepwater Titan in the six months ending December 31, 2022. The Shipyard Loans are guaranteed by Transocean Inc. Borrowings under the Shipyard Loan for Deepwater Atlas will be secured by, among other security, a lien on the rig. In certain circumstances, the maximum aggregate borrowing capacity under the Shipyard Loan for Deepwater Titan may be increased to approximately $440 million, and such Shipyard Loan may also be secured by, among other security, a lien on the rig. We will repay the borrowings, together with interest of 4.5 percent per annum, according to the selected installment schedule over a maximum of a six-year period following delivery of the drilling rigs. We have the right to prepay any outstanding borrowings, in full or 

- 33 - 
in part, without penalty. The Shipyard Loans contain covenants that, among other things, limits the ability of the subsidiary owners of the drilling rigs to incur certain types of additional indebtedness or make certain additional commitments or investments. At February 14, 2022, we had no borrowings outstanding under the Shipyard Loans.

Share issuance—On June 14, 2021, we entered into an equity distribution agreement with a sales agent for the offer and sale of our shares, with up to an aggregate net offering price of $400 million, pursuant to the ATM Program. We intend to use the net proceeds from the sale of our shares under the ATM Program for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things the repayment or refinancing of indebtedness and the funding of working capital, capital expenditures, investments and additional balance sheet liquidity. In the year ended December 31, 2021, we received aggregate cash proceeds of $158 million, net of issue costs, for the aggregate sale of 36.1 million shares under the ATM Program.

Debt exchanges—On February 26, 2021, we issued $294 million aggregate principal amount of the 4.00% Senior Guaranteed Exchangeable Bonds and made an aggregate cash payment of $11 million in the 2021 Private Exchange for $323 million aggregate principal amount of the 0.50% Exchangeable Senior Bonds. The 4.00% Senior Guaranteed Exchangeable Bonds are guaranteed by Transocean Ltd. and the same subsidiaries of Transocean Inc. that guarantee the 2.50% senior guaranteed exchangeable bonds due January 2027 (the “2.50% Senior Guaranteed Exchangeable Bonds”) and the 11.50% senior guaranteed notes due January 2027 (the “11.50% Senior Guaranteed Notes”). The indenture that governs the 4.00% Senior Guaranteed Exchangeable Bonds also requires such bonds to be repurchased upon the occurrence of certain fundamental changes and events, at specified prices depending on the particular fundamental change or event, which include changes and events related to certain (i) change of control events applicable to Transocean Ltd. or Transocean Inc., (ii) the failure of our shares to be listed or quoted on a national securities exchange and (iii) specified tax matters. The 4.00% Senior Guaranteed Exchangeable Bonds may be exchanged at any time prior to the close of business on the second business day immediately preceding the maturity date at a current exchange rate of 190.4762 Transocean Ltd. shares per $1,000 note, which implies an exchange price of $5.25 per share, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events, and any such exchange may be settled in cash, Transocean Ltd. shares or a combination of cash and Transocean Ltd. shares, at our election.

On August 14, 2020, we issued $238 million aggregate principal amount of the 2.50% Senior Guaranteed Exchangeable Bonds in the 2020 Private Exchange for $397 million aggregate principal amount of the 0.50% Exchangeable Senior Bonds. The 2.50% Senior Guaranteed Exchangeable Bonds are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Transocean Ltd. and certain wholly owned indirect subsidiaries of Transocean Inc. We may redeem all or a portion of the 2.50% Senior Guaranteed Exchangeable Bonds (i) on or after August 14, 2022, if certain conditions related to the price of our shares have been satisfied, at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount and (ii) on or after August 14, 2023, at specified redemption prices. The indenture that governs the 2.50% Senior Guaranteed Exchangeable Bonds contains covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur certain liens on our drilling units without equally and ratably securing the notes, engage in certain sale and lease back transactions covering any of our drilling units, allow our subsidiaries to incur certain additional debt, and consolidate, merge or enter into a scheme of arrangement qualifying as an amalgamation. The indenture that governs the 2.50% Senior Guaranteed Exchangeable Bonds also requires such bonds to be repurchased upon the occurrence of certain fundamental changes and events, at specified prices depending on the particular fundamental change or event, which include changes and events related to certain (i) change of control events applicable to Transocean Ltd. or Transocean Inc., (ii) the failure of our shares to be listed or quoted on a national securities exchange and (iii) specified tax matters. The 2.50% Senior Guaranteed Exchangeable Bonds may be exchanged at any time prior to the close of business on the second business day immediately preceding the maturity date or the redemption date at a current exchange rate of 162.1626 Transocean Ltd. shares per $1,000 note, which implies an exchange price of $6.17 per share, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events.

On September 11, 2020, we issued $687 million aggregate principal amount of the 11.50% Senior Guaranteed Notes in the 2020 Exchange Offers, pursuant to an exchange offer memorandum, dated August 10, 2020, as supplemented, for an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion of several series of our existing debt securities that were validly tendered and accepted for purchase. The 11.50% Senior Guaranteed Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Transocean Ltd. and certain wholly owned indirect subsidiaries of Transocean Inc. We may redeem all or a portion of the 11.50% Senior Guaranteed Notes prior to July 30, 2023 at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount plus a make-whole premium, and subsequently, at specified redemption prices. We may also use the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings by Transocean Ltd. to redeem, on one or more occasions prior to July 30, 2023, up to a maximum of 40 percent of the original aggregate principal amount of the 11.50% Senior Guaranteed Notes, subject to certain adjustments, at a redemption price equal to 111.50 percent of the aggregate principal amount. The indenture that governs the 11.50% Senior Guaranteed Notes contains covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur certain liens on our drilling units without equally and ratably securing the notes, engage in certain sale and lease back transactions covering any of our drilling units, allow our subsidiaries to incur certain additional debt, make certain internal transfers of our drilling units and consolidate, merge or enter into a scheme of arrangement qualifying as an amalgamation.

Early debt retirement—In January 2022, we made an aggregate cash payment of $18 million to repay the then-outstanding $18 million aggregate principal amount of the 5.52% Senior Secured Notes, and as a result, the noteholders subsequently released all liens, the mortgage on the secured rig and $106 million from restricted cash accounts. In the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we made an aggregate cash payment of $79 million and $110 million, respectively, to repurchase in the open market $79 million and $147 million, respectively, aggregate principal amount of our debt securities. In February 2020, we made an aggregate cash payment of $767 million, including the make-whole premium, to redeem in full the then-outstanding 9.00% Senior Notes. In November 2020, we completed the cash 

- 34 - 
tender offers to purchase certain debt securities, and as a result, we made an aggregate cash payment of $222 million to settle the validly tendered notes.

Debt issuances—On January 17, 2020, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of our 8.00% Senior Notes, and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $743 million, net of issue costs. We may redeem all or a portion of the 8.00% Senior Notes on or prior to February 1, 2023 at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount plus a make-whole premium, and subsequently, at specified redemption prices.

Equity and debt investments—We hold equity and debt investments in Orion, the company that, through its wholly owned subsidiary, owns the harsh environment floater Transocean Norge. In June 2021, we agreed to participate in a financing arrangement for Orion, at a rate of 33.0 percent, equivalent to our ownership interest in Orion and made a cash investment of $33 million in the loan facility.

We also hold equity and debt investments in certain unconsolidated affiliates that are involved in researching and developing technology to improve efficiency, reliability, sustainability and safety in drilling and other activities. One of these companies, Nauticus Robotics, develops highly sophisticated, ultra-sustainable marine robots and intelligent software to power them, and commercializes our patented HaloGuard℠ system, which alarms, notifies and, if required, halts equipment to avoid injury to personnel who move into danger zones. Nauticus Robotics has recently entered into a definitive business combination agreement with a publicly traded special purpose acquisition company that will result in it becoming a publicly listed company.

Litigation settlement—In June 2020, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana (the “MDL Court”) released the then-remaining $125 million of assets held in the escrow account established to satisfy our remaining obligations under the settlement agreement that we and the Plaintiff Steering Committee filed in May 2015 with the MDL Court, in which most claims against us for damages related to the blowout of the Macondo well in April 2010 were consolidated by the U.S. Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. Following the release of assets, all significant litigation, including civil and criminal claims, resulting from the Macondo well incident had been resolved.

Share repurchase program—In May 2009, at our annual general meeting, our shareholders approved and authorized our board of directors, at its discretion, to repurchase an amount of our shares for cancellation with an aggregate purchase price of up to CHF 3.50 billion. On February 12, 2010, our board of directors authorized our management to implement the share repurchase program. At December 31, 2021, the authorization remaining under the share repurchase program was for the repurchase of up to CHF 3.24 billion, equivalent to approximately $3.55 billion, of our outstanding shares. We intend to fund any repurchases using available cash balances and cash from operating activities. The share repurchase program could be suspended or discontinued by our board of directors or company management, as applicable, at any time. We may decide, based on our ongoing capital requirements, the price of our shares, regulatory and tax considerations, cash flow generation, the amount and duration of our contract backlog, general market conditions, debt rating considerations and other factors, that we should retain cash, reduce debt, make capital investments or acquisitions or otherwise use cash for general corporate purposes. Decisions regarding the amount, if any, and timing of any share repurchases will be made from time to time based on these factors. Any repurchased shares under the share repurchase program would be held by us for cancellation by the shareholders at a future general meeting of shareholders. See “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Shareholder Matters.”

Contractual obligations—At December 31, 2021, our contractual obligations stated at face value, were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2021, our defined benefit pension and other postemployment plans represented an aggregate liability of $132 million, representing the aggregate projected benefit obligation, net of the aggregate fair value of plan assets. The carrying amount of this liability is influenced by, among others, significant current and future assumptions, funding contributions, returns on plan assets, participant demographics, and plan amendments. We excluded this amount from our contractual obligations presented above due to the uncertainties resulting from these factors and because the amount is not representative of future liquidity requirements. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 10—Postemployment Benefit Plans.

As of December 31, 2021, we have unrecognized tax benefits of $435 million, including interest and penalties, against which we have recorded net operating loss deferred tax assets of $320 million, resulting in net unrecognized tax benefits of $115 million, including interest and penalties, that upon reversal would favorably impact our effective tax rate. Although a portion of these could settle or reverse in the coming year, we have excluded this amount from our contractual obligations presented above due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows associated with these liabilities and the period in which any cash settlement may be made with the respective taxing authorities. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 11—Income Taxes.

- 35 - 
Other commercial commitments—We have other commercial commitments, such as standby letters of credit and surety bonds that guarantee our performance as it relates to our drilling contracts, insurance, customs, tax and other obligations in various jurisdictions. The cash obligations of these commitments, which are primarily geographically concentrated in Brazil, are not normally called because we typically comply with the underlying performance requirements. Standby letters of credit are issued under various committed and uncommitted credit lines, some of which require cash collateral. At December 31, 2021, the aggregate cash collateral held by banks for letters of credit and surety bonds was $8 million.

At December 31, 2021, these obligations stated in U.S. dollar equivalents and their time to expiration were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We have established a wholly owned captive insurance company to insure various risks of our operating subsidiaries. Access to the cash and cash equivalents of the captive insurance company may be limited due to local regulatory restrictions. At December 31, 2021, the captive insurance company held cash and cash equivalents of $52 million, and such balance is expected to range from $25 million to $75 million through December 31, 2022. The balance of the cash and cash equivalents held by the captive insurance company varies, depending on (i) premiums received and (ii) the timing and magnitude of claims and dividends paid by the captive insurance company.

Drilling fleet

Expansion—From time to time, we review possible acquisitions of businesses and drilling rigs, as well as noncontrolling interests in other companies, and we may make significant future capital commitments for such purposes. We may also consider investments related to major rig upgrades, new rig construction, or the acquisition of a rig under construction. Any such acquisition or investment could involve the payment by us of a substantial amount of cash or the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares or other securities. Our failure to subsequently secure drilling contracts in these instances, if not already secured, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows.

In the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we made capital expenditures of $208 million and $265 million, respectively, including $174 million and $143 million, respectively, for our newbuild construction projects. The historical and projected capital expenditures and non-cash capital additions for our ongoing newbuild construction projects were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The ultimate amount of our capital expenditures is partly dependent upon financial market conditions, the actual level of operational and contracting activity, the costs associated with the current regulatory environment and customer requested capital improvements and equipment for which the customer agrees to reimburse us. As with any major shipyard project that takes place over an extended period of time, the actual costs, the timing of expenditures and the project completion date may vary from estimates based on numerous factors, including actual contract terms, weather, exchange rates, shipyard labor conditions, availability of suppliers to recertify equipment and the market demand for components and resources required for drilling unit construction. We intend to fund the cash requirements relating to our capital expenditures not financed under the Shipyard Loans by using available cash balances, cash generated from operations and asset sales, borrowings under our Secured Credit Facility and financing arrangements with banks or other capital providers. Economic conditions and other factors could impact the availability of these sources of funding. See “—Sources and uses of liquidity.”

- 36 - 
Dispositions—From time to time, we may also review the possible disposition of certain drilling assets. Considering market conditions, we have committed to plans to sell certain lower specification drilling units for scrap value. During the two-year period ended December 31, 2021, we identified eight such drilling units that we sold for scrap value or other purposes. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed the sale of one harsh environment floater and related assets, and we received net cash proceeds of $4 million. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we completed the sale of one ultra-deepwater floater, three harsh environment floaters and three midwater floaters, along with related assets, and we received aggregate net cash proceeds of $20 million. We continue to evaluate the drilling units in our fleet and may identify additional lower-specification drilling units to be sold for scrap value.

Related Party Transactions

We engage in certain related party transactions with our unconsolidated affiliates, the most significant of which are under agreements with Orion. We have a management services agreement for the operation, stacking and maintenance of the harsh environment floater Transocean Norge and a marketing services agreement for the marketing of the rig. We also leased the rig under a short-term bareboat charter agreement, which expired in June 2021. Prior to the rig’s placement into service, we engaged in certain related party transactions with Orion under a shipyard care agreement for the construction of the rig and other matters related to its completion and delivery. Additionally, in June 2021, Orion refinanced its shipyard loans under a financing arrangement for $100 million, in which we participated at a rate equivalent to our ownership interest in Orion. Borrowings under the financing arrangement are secured by Transocean Norge. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4—Unconsolidated Affiliates.

In August 2020, Perestroika AS, an entity affiliated with one of our directors that beneficially owns approximately 10 percent of our shares, exchanged $356 million aggregate principal amount of the 0.50% Exchangeable Senior Bonds for $213 million aggregate principal amount of 2.50% Senior Guaranteed Exchangeable Bonds. Perestroika AS has certain registration rights related to its shares and shares that may be issued in connection with any exchange of its 2.50% Senior Guaranteed Exchangeable Bonds. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 9—Debt.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Overview—We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require us to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates require significant judgments and assumptions. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to our income taxes, property and equipment, equity investments, contingencies, assets held for sale, intangibles, allowance for excess materials and supplies, allowance for credit losses, postemployment benefit plans, leases and share-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

We consider the following to be our critical accounting policies and estimates since they are very important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require our most subjective and complex judgments. We have discussed the development, selection and disclosure of such policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. For a discussion of our significant accounting policies and accounting standards updates, refer to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2—Significant Accounting Policies and Note 3—Accounting Standards Update.

Income taxes—We provide for income taxes based on expected taxable income, statutory rates, tax laws and tax planning opportunities available to us in the jurisdictions in which we operate or have a taxable presence. The relationship between our provision for or benefit from income taxes and our income or loss before income taxes can vary significantly from period to period considering, among other factors, (a) the overall level of income before income taxes, (b) changes in the blend of income that is taxed based on gross revenues rather than income before taxes, (c) rig movements between taxing jurisdictions and (d) our rig operating structures. Consequently, our income tax expense does not change proportionally with our income or loss before income taxes.

Uncertain tax positions—We apply significant judgment to evaluate our tax positions based on the interpretation of tax laws in various jurisdictions and with the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events, such as the amount, timing and character of income, deductions and tax credits. Our tax liability in any given year could be affected by changes in tax laws, regulations, agreements, and treaties, currency exchange restrictions or our level or profitability of operations in each jurisdiction. The tax laws relating to the offshore drilling industry in certain jurisdictions in which we operate are not well developed, requiring us to apply incremental judgment. Although we employ the best information available at the time we prepare our annual tax provision, a number of years may elapse before the tax liabilities in the various jurisdictions are ultimately determined.

We are undergoing examinations of our tax returns in a number of taxing jurisdictions for various years. We review our liabilities on an ongoing basis and, to the extent audits or other events cause us to adjust the liabilities accrued in prior periods, we recognize those adjustments in the period of the event. Our tax liabilities are dependent on numerous factors that cannot be reasonably projected, including among others, the amount and nature of additional taxes potentially asserted by local tax authorities; the willingness of local tax authorities to negotiate a fair settlement through an administrative process; the impartiality of the local courts; and the potential for changes in the taxes 

- 37 - 
paid to one country that either produce, or fail to produce, offsetting tax changes in other countries. Consequently, we cannot reasonably estimate the future impact of changes to the assumptions and estimates related to our annual tax provision.

Unrecognized tax benefits—We establish liabilities for estimated tax exposures, and the provisions and benefits resulting from changes to those liabilities are included in our annual tax provision along with related interest and penalties. Such tax exposures include potential challenges to permanent establishment positions, intercompany pricing, disposition transactions, and withholding tax rates and their applicability. These exposures may be affected by changes in applicable tax law or other factors, which could cause us to revise our prior estimates, and are generally resolved through the settlement of audits within these tax jurisdictions or by judicial means. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, our unrecognized tax benefits were approximately $435 million and $419 million, respectively.

Valuation allowance—We apply significant judgment to determine whether our deferred tax assets will be fully or partially realized. Our evaluation requires us to consider all available positive and negative evidence, including projected future taxable income and the existence of cumulative losses in recent years. We continually evaluate strategies that could allow for the future utilization of our deferred tax assets. When it is estimated to be more likely than not that all or some portion of certain deferred tax assets, such as foreign tax credit carryovers or net operating loss carryforwards, will not be realized, we establish a valuation allowance for the amount of the deferred tax assets that is considered to be unrealizable. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, in connection with our evaluation of the projected realizability of our deferred tax assets, we determined that our consolidated cumulative loss incurred over the recent three-year period has limited our ability to consider other subjective evidence, such as projected contract activity rather than contract backlog. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 11—Income Taxes.

Property and equipment—We apply significant judgment to account for our property and equipment, consisting primarily of offshore drilling rigs and related equipment, related to estimates and assumptions for cost capitalization, useful lives and salvage values. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the carrying amount of our property and equipment was $17.10 billion and $17.67 billion, respectively, representing 83 percent and 81 percent, respectively, of our total assets.

Capitalized costs—We capitalize costs incurred to enhance, improve and extend the useful lives of our property and equipment and expense costs incurred to repair and maintain the existing condition of our rigs. For newbuild construction projects, we also capitalize the initial preparation, mobilization and commissioning costs incurred until the drilling unit is placed into service. Capitalized costs increase the carrying amounts of, and depreciation expense for, the related assets, which also impact our results of operations.

Useful lives and salvage values—We depreciate our assets using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives after allowing for salvage values. We estimate useful lives and salvage values by applying judgments and assumptions that reflect both historical experience and expectations regarding future operations, rig utilization and asset performance. Useful lives and salvage values of rigs are difficult to estimate due to a variety of factors, including (a) technological advances that impact the methods or cost of oil and gas exploration and development, (b) changes in market or economic conditions and (c) changes in laws or regulations affecting the drilling industry. Applying different judgments and assumptions in establishing the useful lives and salvage values would likely result in materially different net carrying amounts and depreciation expense for our assets. We reevaluate the remaining useful lives and salvage values of our rigs when certain events occur that directly impact the useful lives and salvage values of the rigs, including changes in operating condition, functional capability and market and economic factors. We may also consider major capital upgrades required to perform certain contracts and the long-term impact of those upgrades on future marketability. At December 31, 2021, a hypothetical one-year increase in the useful lives of all of our rigs would cause a decrease in our annual depreciation expense of approximately $31 million and a hypothetical one-year decrease would cause an increase in our annual depreciation expense of approximately $36 million.

Long-lived asset impairment—We review our property and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of our assets held and used may not be recoverable. Potential impairment indicators include rapid declines in commodity prices and related market conditions, declines in dayrates or utilization, cancellations of contracts or credit concerns of multiple customers. During periods of oversupply, we may idle or stack rigs for extended periods of time or we may elect to sell certain rigs for scrap, which could be an indication that an asset group may be impaired since supply and demand are the key drivers of rig utilization and our ability to contract our rigs at economical rates. Our rigs are mobile units, equipped to operate in geographic regions throughout the world and, consequently, we may mobilize rigs from an oversupplied region to a more lucrative and undersupplied region when it is economical to do so. Many of our contracts generally allow our customers to relocate our rigs from one geographic region to another, subject to certain conditions, and our customers utilize this capability to meet their worldwide drilling requirements. Accordingly, our rigs are considered to be interchangeable within classes or asset groups, and we evaluate impairment by asset group. We consider our asset groups to be ultra-deepwater floaters and harsh environment floaters.

We assess recoverability of assets held and used by projecting undiscounted cash flows for the asset group being evaluated. When the carrying amount of the asset group is determined to be unrecoverable, we recognize an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its estimated fair value. To estimate the fair value of each asset group, we apply a variety of valuation methods, incorporating income, market and cost approaches. We may weigh the approaches, under certain circumstances, when relevant data is limited, when results are inconclusive or when results deviate significantly. Our estimate of fair value generally requires us to use significant unobservable inputs, representative of Level 3 fair value measurements, including assumptions related to the long-term future performance of our asset groups, such as projected revenues and costs, dayrates, rig utilization and revenue efficiency. These projections involve uncertainties that rely on assumptions about demand for our services, future market conditions and 

- 38 - 
technological developments. Because our business is cyclical in nature, the results of our impairment testing are expected to vary significantly depending on the timing of the assessment relative to the business cycle. Altering either the timing of or the assumptions used to estimate fair value and significant unanticipated changes to the assumptions could materially alter an outcome that could otherwise result in an impairment loss. Given the nature of these evaluations and their application to specific asset groups and specific time periods, it is not possible to reasonably quantify the impact of changes in these assumptions. In the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized a loss of $31 million, which had no tax effect, associated with the impairment of the midwater floater asset group. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 7—Long-Lived Assets.

Equity-method investments and impairment—We review our equity-method investments for potential impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment might not be recoverable in the near term. Such circumstances include the following: (a) evidence we are unable to recover the carrying amount of our investment, (b) evidence that the investee is unable to sustain earnings that would justify the carrying amount or (c) the current fair value of the investment is less than the carrying amount. If an evaluation of such circumstances results in the determination that an impairment that is other than temporary exists, we recognize an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the investment exceeds its estimated fair value. To estimate the fair value of the investment, we apply valuation methods that rely primarily on the income and market approaches. Our estimate of fair value generally requires us to use significant unobservable inputs, representative of Level 3 fair value measurements, including assumptions related to the estimated discount rate and the investee’s long-term future operational performance factors, such as projected revenues and costs and market factors, including demand for the investee’s industry, services and product lines. Such projections involve significant uncertainties and require significant judgment. In the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we recognized a loss of $37 million and $59 million, respectively, associated with an other-than-temporary impairment of the carrying amount of our equity-method investments. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4—Unconsolidated Affiliates.

Other Matters

Regulatory matters

We occasionally receive inquiries from governmental regulatory agencies regarding our operations around the world, including inquiries with respect to various tax, environmental, regulatory and compliance matters. To the extent appropriate under the circumstances, we investigate such matters, respond to such inquiries and cooperate with the regulatory agencies. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies.

Tax matters

We conduct operations through our various subsidiaries in countries throughout the world. Each country has its own tax regimes with varying nominal rates, deductions and tax attributes that are subject to changes resulting from new legislation, interpretation or guidance. From time to time, as a result of these changes, we may revise previously evaluated tax positions, which could cause us to adjust our recorded tax assets and liabilities. Tax authorities in certain jurisdictions are examining our tax returns and, in some cases, have issued assessments. We intend to defend our tax positions vigorously. Although we can provide no assurance as to the outcome of the aforementioned changes, examinations or assessments, we do not expect the ultimate liability to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations; however, it could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated cash flows. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 11—Income Taxes.

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk