ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common shares are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below. Many of the risks listed below are, and will be, exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic and any worsening of the economic environment. The following risk factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical results and from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements.

Risks Related to Global and Economic Conditions

The outbreak of COVID-19 has had a significant adverse impact on our business, and this outbreak, as well as other public health crises or disease outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics, has and could continue to adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could continue to exacerbate other risk factors.

A public health crisis or disease outbreak, epidemic or pandemic, such as COVID-19, or the threat or fear of such an event, has adversely impacted and could continue to adversely impact our business. COVID-19 significantly impacted consumer traffic and our retail sales during Fiscal 2021, due to the public health risk and government-imposed quarantines and restrictions of public gatherings and commercial activity to contain spread of the virus. In March 2020 we temporarily closed all of our stores in North America, our diamond operations in New York, our support centers in the US, and effective March 24, 2020, temporarily closed all of our stores in the UK. During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021, both the UK and certain provinces of Canada re-established mandatory store closures. The shutdown of our New York diamond operations disrupted, to some extent, the growth of our eCommerce business. Our business may be further impacted if the economy deteriorates due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, or if additional federal or state mandates order the shutdown of our stores, support centers or distribution centers. Further, due to COVID-19, we have recorded and may continue to record non-cash asset impairment charges, which may affect our operating results under US GAAP.

Additionally, there is significant uncertainty around our customers’ willingness to continue to visit retail stores, particularly if the community transmission rates or health implications of new COVID-19 variants, such as the Omicron variant, create heightened risks. Social distancing protocols, government mandated occupancy limitations and general consumer behaviors due to COVID-19 may negatively impact store traffic, which may negatively impact our sales. Such negative impacts may be exacerbated during peak traffic times such as the Holiday shopping season. Further, there is no guarantee that the safety protocols we have implemented will be effective or be perceived as effective, and any virus-related illnesses linked or alleged to be linked to our stores, whether accurate or not, may negatively affect our reputation, operating results and/or financial condition. The COVID-19 pandemic also has disrupted our 

18
global supply chain, and may cause additional disruptions to operations, including increased costs of production and distribution. In addition, there could be further adverse impacts if our employees become sick, continue to be quarantined, or are otherwise limited in their ability to work at Company locations or travel. We may experience increased operational challenges due to the implementation of work from home policies for both office employees and store employees whose stores are temporarily closed. Remote working arrangements may increase risks associated with our information systems such as the risk of cybersecurity incidents or system failures, which could have an adverse effect on our business.

The uncertainty around the duration of business disruptions; the possibility of additional periods of increases or spikes in the number of COVID-19 cases; the impact of vaccines across the globe; and the extent of the spread of the virus in the US and other areas of the world, could continue to adversely impact the national or global economy and negatively impact consumer spending, particularly discretionary spending, and our stock price. Additionally, any COVID-19 vaccine mandates by local or federal governments could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain team members. If we are unable to continue to recruit and retain quality team members, including store and distribution center personnel, it could hinder our long-term strategies and success, and negatively impact our growth and profitability.

In the event of a prolonged economic downturn or acute recession, significant inflation, or increased supply chain shortages impacting our customers, suppliers, employees, products, stores or the economy as a whole, consumer spending habits could be adversely affected, and we could experience lower than expected sales and profitability. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results; our level of indebtedness and covenant compliance; our ability to raise additional capital; our ability to execute our business plans; our access to and cost of financing; our lease obligations and relationships with our landlords; asset impairments; and our ability to execute and capitalize on our strategies. The full extent of the impact of COVID-19 on our operations, financial performance, and liquidity, depends on future developments that are uncertain and unpredictable, including the duration and spread of the pandemic, its impact on capital and financial markets on a macro-scale and any new information that may emerge concerning the severity of the virus, its spread to other regions and the actions to contain the virus or treat its impact, among others. Further, as the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, the pace of the economic recovery and shifts in consumer discretionary spending and gifting to other categories such as travel and restaurants may negatively impact our results of operations or cash flows.

To the extent that COVID-19 has affected and continues to adversely affect the US and global economy, our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition, it has heightened, and may continue to heighten, other risks described within the “Risk Factors” section in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 30, 2021. See the COVID-19 Update within Part I, Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of the potential impact of COVID-19 on our business operations.

Global economic conditions and regulatory changes following the UK’s exit from the European Union could adversely impact Signet’s business and results of operations located in, or closely associated with, the UK.

The UK formally exited the European Union on January 31, 2020 (often referred to as Brexit). The ongoing uncertainty within the UK’s government and parliament on the future relationship between the UK and the European Union has had an adverse impact on the UK’s economy and likely will continue to do so until the practical application of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement struck between the UK and European Union to administer post-Brexit trade and future EU-UK relations is fully realized and understood. This is most notably the case as it relates to that part of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement applicable to Northern Ireland (which, whilst part of the UK, continues to follow some EU rules under the Trade and Cooperation Agreement – the “Northern Ireland Protocol”) in order to keep an open land border with the EU). Though the UK left the EU’s Single Market and Customs Union on January 1, 2021, expected border checks on imports from the EU remain to be implemented by the UK as it seeks to both re-negotiate parts of the Northern Ireland Protocol with the EU and defer the impact of elements of the changes triggered by Brexit. reach a definitive resolution on the outstanding trade and legal matters. This deferral and the associated bilateral discussions prolong includes uncertainty with respect to the impact of laws and regulations, including regulations applicable to Signet’s business, that will apply in the UK going forward. Brexit has also given rise to calls for the governments of other European Union member states to consider a referendum on withdrawal from the European Union for their territory. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, could adversely impact global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Any of these factors could depress economic activity, which could adversely impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations especially those located in, or closely associated with, the UK. Brexit could lead to long-term volatility in the currency markets and there could be long-term adverse effects on the value of the British pound. Brexit could also impact other currencies. Signet uses foreign currency derivative instruments to hedge certain exposures to currency exchange rate risks. Brexit could result in significant volatility in currency exchange rate fluctuations and increase Signet’s exposure to foreign currency rate exchange risks and reduce its ability to effectively use certain derivative instruments as a way to hedge risks.

19
A decline in consumer spending may unfavorably impact Signet’s future sales and earnings, particularly if such decline occurs during the Holiday shopping season.

Our financial performance is highly dependent on US consumer confidence and the health of the US economy. The economic conditions in the US, the UK and Europe could impact our future sales and earnings. Conditions in the Eurozone have a significant impact on the UK economy even though the UK is not a member of the Eurozone, which together with uncertainty regarding the final terms of the withdrawal of the UK from the European Union, could adversely impact trading in the International segment, as well as adversely impact the US economy.

The success of our operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending. These include economic conditions, and perceptions of such conditions by consumers, consumer confidence, level of customer traffic in shopping malls and other retail centers, employment, the level of consumers’ disposable income, business conditions, interest rates, consumer debt and asset values, availability of credit and levels of taxation for the economy as a whole and in international, regional and local markets where we operate. As our sales are highly seasonal, a change in any one of these economic conditions during the Holiday shopping season could have an increased adverse impact on our sales.

Consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions; consumer disposable income; consumer confidence; wage and unemployment levels; unexpected trends in merchandise demand; significant competitive and promotional activity by other retailers; the availability, cost and level of consumer debt; inflationary pressures; the increase in general price levels; domestic and global supply chain issues; the costs of basic necessities and other goods; effects of weather and natural disasters, whether caused by climate change or otherwise; epidemics, contagious disease outbreaks, pandemics and other public health concerns, including those related to COVID-19 (including variants such as the Omicron variant); or lockdowns of our stores, support centers or distribution centers due to governmental mandates or social unrest. Any prior increase in consumer discretionary spending during times of crisis may be temporary, such as those related to government stimulus programs or remote-work environments, and consumer spending may decrease again now that the government has terminated such stimulates programs and businesses terminate the ability to work remotely. Such decreases in consumer discretionary spending could result in a decrease in consumer traffic, same store sales, and average transaction values and could cause us to increase promotional activities, which would have a negative impact on our operating margins, all of which could negatively affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or stock price, particularly if consumer spending levels are depressed for a prolonged period of time. Furthermore, we believe government economic stimulus measures have a positive impact on our sales and as it is removed it is uncertain if or how long associated benefits may last.

Jewelry purchases are discretionary and are dependent on the above factors relating to discretionary consumer spending, particularly as jewelry is often perceived to be a luxury purchase. Adverse changes in the economy and periods when discretionary spending by consumers may be under pressure could unfavorably impact sales and earnings. We may respond by increasing discounts or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which could also have a material adverse effect on our margins and operating results.

Our business has historically been highly seasonal, with a significant proportion of our sales and operating profit generated during our fourth quarter, which includes the Holiday shopping season. We expect to continue experiencing a seasonal fluctuation in sales and earnings. Therefore, there is limited ability for us to compensate for shortfalls in fourth quarter sales or earnings by changes in our operations and strategies in other quarters, or to recover from any extensive disruption during the fourth quarter due to any of the factors noted elsewhere in this risk factor, particularly if lockdowns or weather events have an impact on a significant number of stores in the last few days immediately before Christmas Day or disruptions to warehousing, store replenishment systems or our ability to fulfill orders during the Holiday shopping season.

In addition, other retail categories and other forms of expenditure, such as electronics, entertainment and travel, also compete for consumers’ discretionary spending, particularly during the Holiday shopping season. Therefore, the price of jewelry relative to other products influences the proportion of consumers’ expenditures that are spent on jewelry. If the relative price of jewelry increases, if our competitive position deteriorates, or if pent up demand due to COVID-19 restrictions causes consumers to shift spending to more experience-oriented categories such as travel, concerts, and restaurants, our sales and operating profits would be adversely impacted.

An increase in general price levels (due to inflationary pressure, domestic and global supply chain issues or other macroeconomic factors) could also result in a shift in consumer demand away from jewelry and related services, which would adversely affect our sales and, at the same time, increase our operating costs including but not limited to materials, labor, fulfillment and advertising. We may not be able to adequately increase our prices over time at price points that consumers are willing to pay to offset such increased costs. An inability to increase retail prices to reflect higher commodity, labor, advertising and other operating costs, would result in lower profitability.

Particularly sharp increases in commodity costs may result in a time lag before increased commodity costs are fully reflected in retail prices or have an impact to our results of operations. As we use an average cost inventory methodology, volatility in our commodity costs may also result in a time lag before cost increases are reflected in retail prices. Further, even if price increases are implemented, there is no certainty that such increases will be sustainable or acceptable to consumers. These factors may cause decreases in gross and 

20
operating margins and earnings. In addition, any sustained increases in the cost of commodities could result in the need to fund a higher level of inventory or changes in the merchandise available to the customer, which could increase costs, disrupt our sales levels and negatively impact liquidity.

Any deterioration in consumers’ financial position, changes to the regulatory requirements regarding the granting of credit to customers or disruption in the availability of credit to customers could adversely impact the Company’s sales and earnings.

More than 40% of Signet’s sales in the US and Canada utilize third-party customer financing or payment programs, with the additional purchases being made in cash or using third-party bank cards. Any significant deterioration in general economic conditions or increase in consumer debt levels may inhibit consumers’ use of credit and decrease consumers’ ability to satisfy Signet’s requirements for access to customer finance, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the Company’s sales. There is also a risk that if credit is extended to consumers during times when economic conditions are strong, and then economic conditions subsequently deteriorate, consumers may not meet their current payment obligations, but these impacts would be substantially mitigated by the complete outsourcing of the payment programs, and the associated contractual obligations of Signet’s financing partners.

Additionally, the ability of Signet’s customers to obtain credit from our private label credit card providers and the terms of such credit depends on many factors, including continued arrangements with the parties providing the credit financing and compliance with applicable laws and regulations in the US and Canada, any of which may change from time to time. As discussed further in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements, Signet has outsourced its third-party credit programs, however, if any of those third-party credit providers were to terminate, Signet may need to enter into other arrangements with other third-parties. If Signet is unable to find other potential providers to supply a similar third-party credit program and alternative payment options, Signet’s ability to extend credit to customers could be impaired, which could have an adverse effect on Signet’s business.

Any new regulatory initiatives or investigations by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (“CFPB”) or other state authority, or ongoing compliance with the Consent Order entered into on January 16, 2019 with the CFPB and the Attorney General for the State of New York relating to the Company’s in-store credit practices, promotions, and payment protection products could impose additional costs and/or restrictions on credit practices of the North America segment, which could have an adverse effect on the conduct of its business.

Because of the highly seasonal nature of Signet’s sales, any one of these factors that occurs during the Holiday Season would have an increased adverse impact.

Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.

Signet publishes its consolidated annual financial statements in US dollars. At January 29, 2022, Signet held approximately 90% of its total assets in entities whose functional currency is the US dollar and generated approximately 91% of its sales in US dollars for the fiscal year then ended. All the remaining assets and sales are primarily in British pounds and Canadian dollars. Therefore, the Company’s results of operations and balance sheet are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the US dollar and both the British pound and Canadian dollar. Accordingly, any decrease in the weighted average value of the British pound or Canadian dollar against the US dollar, including due to Brexit as discussed above, would decrease reported sales and operating income.

The monthly average exchange rates are used to prepare the income statement and are calculated based on the daily exchange rates experienced by the International segment and the Canadian subsidiaries of the North America segment in the fiscal month. If British pounds or Canadian dollars are held or used to fund the cash flow requirements of the business, any decrease in the weighted average value of the British pound or Canadian dollar against the US dollar would reduce the amount of cash and cash equivalents.

In addition, the prices of certain materials and products bought on the international markets by Signet are denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, Signet and its subsidiaries have exposures to exchange rate fluctuations on its cost of goods sold, as well as volatility of input prices if foreign manufacturers and suppliers are impacted by exchange rate fluctuations.

Our future results of operations may be adversely affected by input cost inflation.

Many aspects of our business have been, and may continue to be, directly affected by volatile commodity costs and other inflationary pressures. Our input costs, particularly for diamonds, began to increase significantly beginning in the latter part of fiscal year 2021, and we expect input cost inflation to continue into fiscal year 2022. Commodities are subject to price volatility which can be caused by commodity market fluctuations, changes in currency exchange rates, imbalances between supply and demand, and government programs and policies among other factors. Volatile fuel costs translate into unpredictable costs for the products and services we 

21
receive from our third-party providers. While we seek to offset increased input costs with a combination of price increases to our customers, purchasing strategies, cost savings initiatives and operating efficiencies, we may be unable to fully offset our increased costs or unable to do so in a timely manner. If we are unable to fully offset such cost increases, our financial results could be materially adversely affected.

Signet’s business could be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, or terrorism and acts of war.

Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the Company’s stores are located could negatively affect the Company’s business and results of operations. For example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, or other extreme weather conditions, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the Company’s salesforce or customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the Company’s sales and profitability, particularly if such events occur during the Company’s Holiday Season. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, or wildfires, or a combination of these or other factors, could damage or destroy the Company’s facilities or make it difficult for the salesforce or customers to travel to its stores, thereby negatively affecting the Company’s business and results of operations.

Terrorism, armed conflict, and acts of war (or the expectation of such events), both in the US and abroad, could also have a significant impact on Signet’s business and the worldwide economy. At times throughout the past several years, volatile conditions have characterized financial markets. Significant market volatility, and government actions taken in response, may exacerbate some of the risks we face. Conflicts abroad could cause decreased demand for the Company’s products as consumers’ attention and interests are diverted from jewelry and become focused on issues relating to these events. For instance, the Russia-Ukraine conflict could adversely impact, among other things, certain of our local markets and suppliers, global and local macroeconomic conditions, foreign exchange rates and financial markets, raw material, energy and transportation costs, and cause further supply chain disruptions. These actions have a significant effect on macroeconomic conditions, give rise to regional instability and result in heightened economic sanctions from the US and the international community in a manner that adversely affects our business, and on an individual level, may impact the Company’s ability to manufacture and ship its merchandise for sale to customers. Given that Signet’s control over such issues, including both weather disasters and large-scale violence, is extremely limited, the Company in such situations would not have a great ability to mitigate the impacts on its business and operations.

Risks Related to Our Operations and Seasonality

Fluctuations in the pricing and availability of commodities, particularly polished diamonds and gold, which account for the majority of Signet’s merchandise costs, could adversely impact its earnings and cash availability.

The jewelry industry generally is affected by fluctuations in the price and supply of natural diamonds, gold and, to a lesser extent, other precious and semi-precious metals and stones.

In Fiscal 2022, prices for the assortment of polished diamonds utilized by Signet decreased slightly compared to prior years. The mining, production and inventory policies followed by major producers of rough diamonds can have a significant impact on natural diamond prices and demand, as can the inventory and buying patterns of jewelry retailers and other parties in the supply chain. The demand for natural diamonds is uncertain and could decrease, which would have an adverse impact on the Company.

The availability of diamonds is significantly influenced by the political situation in diamond producing countries and by the Kimberley Process, an inter-governmental agreement for the international trading of rough diamonds. Until acceptable alternative sources of diamonds can be developed, any sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds from significant producing countries, or to the trading in rough and polished diamonds which could occur as a result of disruption to the Kimberley Process, could adversely affect Signet, as well as the retail jewelry market as a whole. In addition, the current Kimberley Process decision-making procedure is dependent on reaching a consensus among member governments, which can result in the protracted resolution of issues, and there is little expectation of significant reform over the long-term. The impact of this review process on the supply of diamonds, and consumers’ perception of the diamond supply chain, is unknown. In addition to the Kimberley Process, the supply of diamonds to the US is also impacted by governmental trade sanctions, such as those imposed on Zimbabwe.

The possibility of constraints in the supply of diamonds of a size and quality Signet requires to meet its merchandising requirements may result in changes in Signet’s supply chain practices, including for example its rough sourcing initiative. In addition, Signet may from time to time choose to hold more inventory, purchase raw materials at an earlier stage in the supply chain or enter into commercial agreements of a nature that it currently does not use. Such actions could require the investment of cash and/or additional management skills. Such actions may not resolve supply constraints or result in the expected returns and other projected benefits anticipated by management.

22
Additionally, a material increase in the supply of gem quality lab-created diamonds, combined with increased consumer acceptance thereof, could impact the supply and pricing in the natural diamond supply chain, as well as retail pricing.

While jewelry manufacturing is the major final demand for gold, management believes that the cost of gold is predominantly impacted by investment transactions, which have resulted in significant volatility in the gold price in recent years. Signet’s cost of merchandise and potentially its earnings may be adversely impacted by investment market considerations that cause the price of gold to significantly escalate.

An inability to increase retail prices to reflect higher commodity costs would result in lower profitability. Particularly sharp increases in commodity costs may result in a time lag before increased commodity costs are fully reflected in retail prices. As Signet uses an average cost inventory methodology, volatility in its commodity costs may also result in a time lag before cost increases are reflected in retail prices. Further, even if price increases are implemented, there is no certainty that such increases will be sustainable. These factors may cause decreases in gross margins and earnings. In addition, any sustained increases in the cost of commodities could result in the need to fund a higher level of inventory or changes in the merchandise available to the customer, which could increase costs and disrupt Signet’s sales levels.

Alrosa supplies more than 30% of the world’s diamonds. Sanctions against them specifically or the Russian Oligarchs by the US government or other governments may severely limit the supply of diamonds in the world.

The world’s sources of rough diamonds are highly concentrated in a limited number of countries. Varying degrees of political and economic risk exist in these countries. As a consequence, the diamond business is subject to various sovereign risks beyond Signet’s control, such as changes in laws and policies affecting foreign trade and investment. In addition, Signet is subject to various political and economic risks, including the instability of foreign economies and governments, labor disputes, war and civil disturbances and other risks that could cause production difficulties or stoppages, restrict the movement of inventory or result in the deprivation or loss of contract rights or the taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation. Signet’s direct purchases from Alrosa and its sourcing arrangement in Russia do not represent a significant part of its operations. However, any interruption in the total market supply of diamonds due to the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict or domestic or foreign government sanctions against Alrosa or Russian diamonds may impact the ability of Signet’s suppliers to provide Signet with responsibly sourced diamonds that were mined by other companies or in other countries. Any significant disruption of Signet’s sources of supply, or restriction of inventory movement could have a material adverse effect on Signet’s results of operations or cash flows.

Signet may voluntarily disclose, or pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act and SEC rules must file public disclosures regarding the country of origin of certain supplies and materials, which could damage Signet’s reputation or impact the Company’s ability to obtain merchandise if customers or other stakeholders react negatively to Signet’s disclosures.

In August 2012, the SEC, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, issued final rules, which require annual disclosure and reporting on the source and use of certain minerals, including gold, from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The gold supply chain is complex and, while management believes that the rules currently cover less than 1% of annual worldwide gold production (based upon recent estimates), the final rules require Signet and other affected companies that file with the SEC to make specified country of origin inquiries of Signet’s suppliers, and otherwise to exercise reasonable due diligence in determining the country of origin and certain other information relating to any of the statutorily designated minerals (gold, tin, tantalum and tungsten), that are used in products sold by Signet in the US and elsewhere. 

There may be reputational risks associated with the potential negative response of Signet’s customers and other stakeholders to future disclosures by Signet in the event that, due to the complexity of the global supply chain, Signet is unable to sufficiently verify the origin of the relevant commodities. Also, if future responses to verification requests by suppliers of any of the materials used in Signet’s products are inadequate or adverse, Signet’s ability to obtain merchandise may be impaired and its compliance costs may increase. It is possible that other minerals, such as diamonds, could be subject to similar disclosure requirements or rules.

Signet’s sales, operating income, cash and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis.

Signet’s business is highly seasonal, with a significant proportion of its sales and operating profit generated during its fourth quarter, which includes the Holiday Season. Management expects Signet to continue to experience a seasonal fluctuation in its sales and earnings. Therefore, there is limited ability for Signet to compensate for shortfalls in fourth quarter sales or earnings by changes in its operations and strategies in other quarters, or to recover from any extensive disruption, for example, due to sudden adverse changes in consumer confidence, consumer spending ability, economic conditions, unexpected trends in merchandise demand, significant competitive and promotional activity by other retailers, inclement weather conditions having an impact on a significant number of stores in the last few days immediately before Christmas Day or disruption to warehousing and store replenishment systems. 

23
Additionally, in anticipation of increased sales activity in the Holiday Season, Signet incurs certain significant incremental expenses prior to and during peak selling seasons, including advertising and costs associated with hiring a substantial number of temporary employees to supplement the Company’s existing workforce. A significant shortfall in results for the fourth quarter of any fiscal year would therefore be expected to have a material adverse effect on the annual results of operations as well as cash and inventory levels. Disruption at lesser peaks in sales at Valentine’s Day and Mother’s Day would also be expected to adversely impact the results.

Failure to manage inventory levels or to obtain merchandise that customers wish to purchase on a timely basis could have a materially adverse impact on sales and earnings.

In order to operate its business successfully, Signet must maintain sufficient inventory levels. This requires forecasting, especially in the case of the Holiday Season, and a balance between meeting customer demand and avoiding accumulating excess inventory. If management misjudges expected customer demand, fails to identify changes in customer demand, or its supply chain does not respond in a timely manner, a shortage of merchandise or an accumulation of excess inventory could occur, which could adversely impact Signet’s results.

Other factors that could affect the Company’s inventory management and planning team’s ability to accurately forecast customer demand for its products include:

•a substantial increase or decrease in demand for products of Signet’s competitors; 

•failure to accurately forecast trends and customer acceptance for new products;

•new product introductions, promotions or pricing strategies by competitors, particularly during holiday periods;

•changes in the Company’s product offerings including seasonal items and the Company’s ability to replenish these items in a timely manner;

•changes to the Company’s overall seasonal promotional cadence and the number and timing of promotional events and clearance sales;

•more limited historical store sales information for stores in newer markets;

•weakening of economic conditions or consumer confidence in the future, which could reduce demand for discretionary items, such as jewelry; and

•acts or threats of war or terrorism or epidemics, which could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of Signet’s products and raw materials.

If the Company is unable to forecast demand accurately, it may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders or in liquidating excess inventory at discount prices and may experience significant write-offs and customers could opt to purchase jewelry from a competitor. These outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s brand image, sales, gross margins, cash flow, competitive advantage and profitability.

Any difficulty or delay in executing or integrating an acquisition, a business combination or a major business or strategic initiative may result in expected returns and other projected benefits from such an exercise not being realized.

Most recently Signet acquired Diamonds Direct during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2022. There is always the potential for difficulty or delay in execution and integration of an acquisition, a business combination, a major business or strategic initiative including our direct diamond sourcing capabilities, or a strategic plan, such as our Inspiring Brilliance plan, that may prevent us from realizing expected returns and other projected benefits from such exercises during the anticipated timeframe or at all. The long-term growth of our business depends on the successful execution of our evolving business and strategic initiatives. Any number of factors could impact the success of these initiatives, many of which are out of our control, and there can be no assurance that they will be successful or deliver their anticipated benefits. Some initiatives may require us to devote significant management, financial and other resources and may expose us to new and unforeseen risks and challenges. We may also incur significant asset impairment and other charges in connection with any such initiative.

The acquisition of companies with operating margins lower than ours may cause an overall lower operating margin. Our current borrowing agreements place certain limited constraints on our ability to make an acquisition or enter into a business combination, and future borrowing agreements could place tighter constraints on such actions. Further, our ability to retain key employees of an acquired company, maintain pre-acquisition cultural dynamics and team morale, and foster the entrepreneurial spirit of an acquired company, particularly while implementing policies, procedures and compliance measures we require, may impact our ability to successfully integrate an acquisition. A significant transaction could also disrupt the operation of our current activities and divert 

24
significant management time and resources. If we are unable to execute or integrate an acquisition, business combination, a major business or strategic initiative or a transformation plan, this could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations.

Long-term changes in consumer attitudes toward jewelry could be unfavorable and harm jewelry sales.

Consumer attitudes toward diamonds, gold and other precious metals and gemstones influence Signet’s sales. Attitudes could be affected by a variety of issues including concern over the source of raw materials; the impact of mining and refining of minerals on the environment; the local community and the political stability of the producing country; labor conditions in the supply chain; and the availability of and consumer attitudes about substitute products such as cubic zirconia, moissanite and lab-created diamonds. An inability to effectively address a rapid and significant increase in consumer acceptance of lab-created diamonds, as well as a negative change in consumer attitudes toward jewelry, could adversely impact Signet’s sales and earnings. In addition, transparency regarding substitute products such as lab-created diamonds is important to maintaining consumer confidence. If the Company does not appropriately and adequately identify the use of the substitute products in its jewelry, its reputation and results could be adversely impacted.

New tariffs, if imposed on goods that the Company imports, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.

In March 2018, the US Government announced tariffs on certain steel and aluminum products imported into the US, which resulted in reciprocal tariffs from the European Union on goods imported from the US. In September 2018, the US Government placed additional tariffs of approximately $200 billion on goods imported from China. These tariffs, which took effect on September 25, 2018, were initially set at a level of 10% until the end of 2018, at which point the tariffs rose to 25%. On September 1, 2019, the US Government placed additional tariffs of approximately $300 billion on goods imported from China. Depending on the type of import, a new 15% tariff became effective on September 1, 2019, but upon the Phase One Economic and Trade Agreement signed in January 2020, which became effective in February 2020, between the US and China was reduced to 7.5%. The 7.5% tariff applies to jewelry that the Company imports from China. China has already imposed tariffs on a wide range of American products in retaliation, and additional tariffs could be imposed by China in further retaliation. There is also a concern that the imposition of additional tariffs by the US could result in the adoption of additional tariffs by other countries as well. The escalation of trade tensions could have a significant, adverse effect on world trade and the world economy. While the Company does not believe that the recently enacted tariffs will materially impact its business, the imposition of additional or increased tariffs on jewelry or other items imported by it from China or other countries, or the Company’s inability to successfully manage inventory from China, could require the Company to increase prices to its customers or, if unable to do so, result in lowering its gross margin on products sold.

Signet depends on manufacturers and suppliers to provide it with sufficient quantities of quality products timely.

Ultimate delivery of Signet’s merchandise is substantially dependent upon third-party manufacturers and suppliers. In Fiscal 2022, the five largest suppliers collectively accounted for 19.6% of total purchases, with the largest supplier comprising 5.1%. A manufacturer’s or supplier’s inability to manufacture or deliver a product on time and of appropriate quality would impair Signet’s ability to respond to consumer demand, which would put the Company at a competitive disadvantage and result in lost sales. Costs would also be increased if Signet were to attempt to engage replacement manufacturers to rush orders on items that the Company needed immediately. See the risk factor above titled “The outbreak of COVID-19 has had a significant adverse impact on our business, and this outbreak, as well as other public health crises or disease outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics, has and could continue to adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could continue to exacerbate other risk factors.” regarding the potential adverse impact COVID-19 could have on the Company’s supply chain.

Signet has close commercial relationships with a number of suppliers and management holds regular reviews with major suppliers to sustain continuity of these relationships. However, government requirements regarding sources of commodities, such as those required by the Dodd-Frank Act or sanctions on Alrosa or its management, could result in Signet choosing to terminate relationships with suppliers in the future due to a change in a supplier’s sourcing practices or Signet’s compliance with laws and internal policies. Damage to, or loss of, any of these relationships could have an adverse effect on results.

In addition, luxury and prestige watch manufacturers and distributors normally grant agencies the right to sell their ranges on a store-by-store basis. An inability to obtain or retain watch agencies for a location could harm the performance of that particular store. The watch brands sold by Ernest Jones, and to a lesser extent Jared, help attract customers and build sales in all categories. In the case of Ernest Jones, the inability to gain additional prestige watch agencies is an important factor in, and may reduce the likelihood of, opening new stores, which could adversely impact sales growth.

The growth in importance of other branded merchandise within the jewelry market may adversely impact Signet’s sales and earnings if it is unable to obtain supplies of or further develop branded merchandise that the customer wishes to purchase. In addition, if Signet 

25
loses the distribution rights to an important branded jewelry range or is committed to continue to carry a brand that is no longer viewed as on trend, it could adversely impact sales and earnings.

Risks Related to Competition and Innovation

Signet’s pricing compared to competitors, the increased price transparency in the market and the highly fragmented competitive nature of the retail jewelry industry, may have an adverse impact on Signet’s performance.

Critical to maintaining an optimal customer experience is a multi-faceted value proposition focused on attractive brand and category assortments, availability of financing, deep customer service and relationship building with the Company’s guest service professionals, as well as competitive pricing. Although not a singular differentiator to the Company’s value proposition, if significant price increases are implemented by any segment or across a wide range of merchandise, the impact on earnings will depend on, among other factors, the pricing by competitors of similar products and the response by customers to higher prices. Such price increases may result in lower sales and adversely impact earnings.

The retail jewelry industry is competitive. Signet’s competitors are specialty jewelry retailers, as well as other jewelry retailers, including department stores, mass merchandisers, discount stores, apparel and accessory fashion stores, brand retailers, shopping clubs, home shopping television channels, direct home sellers, online retailers and auction sites. Aggressive discounting by competitors may adversely impact Signet’s performance in the short term. This is particularly the case for easily comparable pieces of jewelry, of similar quality, sold through stores that are situated near those that Signet operates. Signet faces significant competition from independent and regional specialty jewelry retailers that are able to adjust their competitive stance, for example on pricing, to local market conditions. This can put individual Signet stores at a competitive disadvantage as Signet segments have a national pricing strategy.

Consumers are increasingly shopping or starting their jewelry buying experience online, which makes it easier for them to compare prices and quality with other jewelry retailers. If Signet’s brands do not offer the same or similar item at the lowest price, or if competitors offer a better and more user-friendly website experience than Signet, or financing that is easier to access or provides better terms, consumers may purchase their jewelry from competitors, which would adversely impact the Company’s sales and results of operations.

An inability to successfully develop and maintain a relevant OmniChannel experience for customers, failure to anticipate changing fashion trends in the jewelry industry, and poor execution of marketing programs and management of social media could result in a loss of confidence by consumers in Signet’s brand names and have an adverse impact on sales.

Signet’s business has evolved from primarily an in-store experience to interaction with customers across numerous channels, including in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others. OmniChannel retailing is rapidly evolving and Signet must keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments by its competitors. Signet’s customers are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones and other devices to comparison shop, determine product availability and complete purchases online. Signet must compete and remain relevant by offering a consistent and convenient shopping experience for its customers regardless of the ultimate sales channel and by investing in, providing and maintaining digital tools for customers that have the right features and are reliable and easy to use.

The ability to differentiate Signet’s stores, services, online experience and merchandise from competitors by better designs, branding and category assortments and the level and quality of customer service and marketing and advertising programs, is an important factor in attracting consumers. In today’s market, this differentiation requires, among other factors, keeping pace with trends in design, as well as setting new jewelry trends, effectively implementing an OmniChannel experience, and targeting effective media campaigns, including an expansion of social media use and new social media platforms, in order to build and maintain customer confidence in the Company and in the brands it sells. As a result, the Company needs to continuously innovate and develop its OmniChannel experience and social media strategies in order to maintain broad appeal with customers and brand relevance. These initiatives may not be successful, resulting in expenses incurred without the benefit of higher revenues, increased employee engagement or brand recognition. In a distressed economic and retail environment, in which many of the Company’s competitors continue to engage in aggressive promotional activities, any failure on Signet’s part to react appropriately to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends, including the failure to plan in advance and invest in marketing and advertising campaigns, could have an adverse impact on sales.

In addition, adverse or inaccurate information concerning the Company or its brands may be posted on social media platforms at any time, and such information can quickly reach a wide audience. The harm may be immediate without affording the Company an 

26
opportunity for redress or correction, and it is challenging to monitor and anticipate developments on social media in order to respond in an effective and timely manner. The Company could also be exposed to these risks if it fails to use social media responsibly in its marketing efforts, including the improper disclosure of proprietary information, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, or out-of-date information. Regardless of its basis or validity, any unfavorable publicity could adversely affect public perception of Signet’s brands. These factors could have a material adverse effect on its business.

If Signet fails to make, improve, develop or acquire relevant customer-facing technology in a timely manner, fails to keep pace with trendsetting, or if the Company’s marketing and social media advertising and efforts are not to scale or miss the mark, the customer could lose confidence in any of Signet’s brands, which could materially and adversely impact sales and earnings.

Risks Related to Technology and Security

Inadequacies in and disruption to systems could result in lower sales and increased costs or adversely impact the reporting and control procedures.

Signet is dependent on the suitability, reliability and durability of its systems and procedures, including its accounting, information technology, data protection, warehousing and distribution systems, and those of its service providers. If support ceased for a critical externally supplied software package or system, management would have to implement an alternative software package or system or begin supporting the software internally. Disruption to parts of the business could result in lower sales and increased costs.

Signet is in the process of substantially modifying its enterprise resource planning systems and certain web platforms, which involves updating or replacing legacy systems with successor systems and migrating some systems, data and functionality to cloud provider servers. These system changes and upgrades can require significant capital investments and dedication of resources. When evaluating and making such changes, there can be no assurances that the Company will successfully implement such changes, that significant additional investments will not be required beyond the project budget, that such changes will occur without disruptions to its operations or maintenance of its internal control compliance programs or that the new or upgraded systems will achieve the desired business objectives. Any damage, disruption or shutdown of the Company’s information systems, or the failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, could have a material adverse effect on Signet’s results of operations.

Security breaches and other disruptions to Signet’s information technology infrastructure and databases and failure of Signet’s customer-facing technology to function as intended or in accordance with applicable law could interfere with Signet’s operations, and could compromise Signet’s and its customers’ and suppliers’ information or cause other harm, exposing Signet to possible business interruptions and liability, which would have a material adverse effect on Signet’s business and reputation.

Signet is increasingly using mobile devices, social media and other online activities to connect with customers, staff and other stakeholders. Therefore, in the ordinary course of business, Signet relies upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including eCommerce sales, supply chain, merchandise distribution, customer invoicing and collection of payments.

Signet also uses information technology systems to record, process and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. Signet collects and stores this financial and other sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, the propriety business information of its customers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of Signet’s customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. Although we seek to prevent and detect attempts by unauthorized users to gain access to our IT systems, and incur significant costs to do so, our information technology network infrastructure has in the past been and may in the future be vulnerable to attacks by hackers, including state-sponsored organizations with significant financial and technological resources, breaches due to employee error, fraud or malice or other disruptions (including, but not limited to, computer viruses and other malware, denial of service, and ransomware), which may involve a privacy breach requiring us to notify regulators, customers or employees and enlist identity theft protection.

The secure operation of these networks, and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to Signet’s business operations and strategy. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, Signet may not timely anticipate evolving techniques used to effect security breaches that may result in damage, disruptions or shutdowns of Signet’s and its third-party vendors’ networks and infrastructure due to attacks by hackers, including phishing or other cyber-attacks, or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance, or other non-hostile disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise Signet’s or the third-party’s networks and the information stored there, including personal, 

27
proprietary or confidential information about Signet, its customers or its third-party vendors, and personally identifiable information of Signet’s customers and employees could be accessed, manipulated, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, exposing its customers to the risk of identity theft and exposing Signet or its third-party vendors to a risk of loss or misuse of this information.

Signet and its third-party vendors have experienced successful attacks and breaches from time to time, however to date, these attacks or breaches have not had a material impact on Signet’s business or operations. Any such malfunction, access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, significant breach-notification costs, lost sales and a disruption to operations (including the Company’s ability to process consumer transactions and manage inventories), media attention, and damage to Signet’s reputation, which could adversely affect Signet’s business. In addition, it could harm Signet’s reputation and ability to execute its business through service and business interruptions, management distraction and/or damage to physical infrastructure, which could adversely impact sales, costs and earnings. If Signet is the target of a material cybersecurity attack resulting in unauthorized disclosure of its customer data, the Company may be required to undertake costly notification and credit monitoring procedures. Compliance with these laws will likely increase the costs of doing business. 

In addition, if Signet’s online activities or other customer-facing technology systems do not function as designed or are deemed to not comply with applicable state and federal regulations concerning automated outbound contacts such as text messages and the sale, advertisement and promotion of the jewelry it sells, the Company may experience a loss of customer confidence, data security breaches, regulatory fines, lawsuits, lost sales or be exposed to fraudulent purchases.

The regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, with new and changing requirements applicable to Signet’s business, including the General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs, such as costs related to organizational changes, implementing additional protection technologies, training employees and engaging consultants. In addition, the Company could be subject to claims, fines, penalties or other liabilities for a failure to comply.

Failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on Signet’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.

Risks Related to Asset Management

The Company’s inability to optimize its real estate footprint could adversely impact sales and earnings.

The success of Signet’s stores, as part of its OmniChannel strategy, is dependent upon a number of factors. These include the availability of desirable property, placement of stores in easily accessible locations with high visibility, the demographic characteristics of the area around the store, the design and maintenance of the stores, the availability of attractive locations within the markets/trade areas that also meet the operational and financial criteria of management, the terms of leases and Signet’s relationship with major landlords. If Signet is unable to maintain a real estate portfolio that satisfies its strategic, operational and financial criteria, through cost-effective strategic store closings and targeted, limited store openings, or if there is a disruption in its relationship with its major landlords, sales could be adversely affected.

Substantially all of Signet’s retail locations are leased, requiring significant cash flow to satisfy the lease obligations. Given the typical length of retail leases, Signet is dependent upon the continued popularity of particular retail locations. Following the initial terms of each lease, it is possible that Signet will not be able to negotiate contract terms favorable to the Company for future leases. This would cause occupancy costs to rise, which would either decrease profit margins at each specific store or force Signet to close certain retail locations.

Many Signet stores are located within shopping malls or shopping centers and benefit from heavy consumer traffic in such locations. Due to the increase in online shopping, there has been a substantial decline in shopping mall and shopping center traffic. If the Company does not focus its locations in attractive areas and/or increase its online sales, this trend away from shopping mall and shopping center purchases could adversely impact Signet’s operations and financial condition. As Signet tests and develops new types of store locations and designs, there is no certainty as to their success.

The rate of store footprint optimization is dependent on a number of factors including obtaining suitable real estate, the capital resources of Signet, the availability of appropriate staff and management, estimated sales transference rate and the level of the financial return on investment required by management.

28
The Company’s ability to protect our physical assets or intellectual property could have a material adverse impact on our brands, reputation and operating results.

Signet’s jewelry products carry high value with resale potential and are therefore subject to loss by theft by customers, organized crime or other third-parties. In addition, products held by us for repair or service are also subject to risk of loss or theft. We have experienced theft in the past and loss by theft may continue or increase in the future. In addition, the security measures we take may not be effective in reducing losses. Higher rates of theft including theft by organized retail crime networks that orchestrate burglaries, “smash and grabs,” looting or shoplifting operations could adversely impact our reputation, operations and ultimately, our overall financial condition. Furthermore, other costs and expenses resulting from criminal activity such as increased security costs and measures to prevent such activity, increased repair costs and increased costs to retain, replace or recruit team members that may be concerned about future crime impacting our stores or the shopping centers they operate in may also adversely impact our reputation, operations and financial condition.

Signet’s trade names, trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property are important assets and an essential element of our strategy. The unauthorized reproduction, theft or misappropriation of our intellectual property could diminish the value of our brands or reputation and cause a decline in sales. Protection of our intellectual property and maintenance of distinct branding are particularly important as they distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. The costs of defending intellectual property may adversely affect our operating results. In addition, any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.

If the Company’s goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or long-lived assets become impaired, the Company may be required to record significant charges to earnings.

The Company has a substantial amount of goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets on its balance sheet. The Company reviews goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. The impairment evaluation requires significant judgment and estimates by management, and unfavorable changes in these assumptions or other factors could result in future impairment charges and have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s reported earnings. Such factors include the operating performance and cash flows of the Company’s stores, lower than anticipated consumer traffic, changes in customer behavior post-pandemic, changes in discount rates, changes in the Company’s real estate strategy or other key business initiatives. Additionally, a general decline in the market valuation of the Company’s common shares, whether related to Signet’s business or overall market conditions, could adversely impact the assumptions used to perform the evaluation of its goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets.

For further information on Signet’s evaluation of impairment for goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets, see “Critical Accounting Estimates” under Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Indebtedness

Signet’s share price may be volatile due to Signet’s results and financial condition or factors impacting the market overall, which could have a short or long-term adverse impact on an investment in Signet stock.

Signet’s share price has fluctuated and may fluctuate substantially as a result of variations in the actual or anticipated results and financial conditions of Signet and other companies in the retail industry. In addition, the stock market has experienced, and may continue to experience, price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other stocks, including Signet’s, in a manner unrelated, or disproportionate, to the operating performance of these companies.

Signet provides public guidance on its expected operating and financial results for future periods. Such guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this report and in Signet’s other public filings and public statements. Signet’s actual results may be below the provided guidance or the expectations of Signet’s investors and analysts, especially in times of economic uncertainty. In the past, when the Company has reduced its outlook related to certain measures in its previously provided guidance, the market price of its common stock has declined. If, in the future, Signet’s operating or financial results for a particular period do not meet guidance or the expectations of investors and analysts or if Signet reduces its outlook related to certain measures in its guidance for future periods, the market price of its common stock may decline. In addition, if the analysts that regularly follow the Company’s stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the Company’s stock price could decline.

29
The Company’s ability to borrow is important to its operations and financial covenants, credit ratings and interest rate volatility could all impact the availability of such debt and could adversely impact the Company’s financial results.

The Company has a significant amount of debt and redeemable preferred securities, and its ability to borrow is necessary to sustain its operations, particularly given the seasonal fluctuations in inventory and staffing requirements and the concentration of sales in the fourth quarter. This debt requires maintaining sufficient cash flow to make continuing payment obligations. Because a large portion of its financing is asset-based and secured, the Company’s ability to draw funds is dependent on maintaining a sufficient borrowing base and it is subject to the risk of loss of such assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy its debt obligations.

Signet’s borrowing agreements include various financial and other covenants. A material deterioration in its financial performance could result in a breach of these covenants. In the event of a breach, the Company would have to renegotiate terms with its current lenders or find alternative sources of financing if current lenders required cancellation of facilities or early repayment. In addition, these covenants, in some cases, limit the Company’s flexibility to adapt its operations to changing conditions. The Company’s credit agreement terms also include exposure to variable interest rate debt and volatility in benchmark interest rates could adversely impact the Company’s financial results.

Additionally, credit rating agencies periodically review Signet’s capital structure and the quality and stability of the Company’s earnings, and should Signet need to obtain more financing, a credit rating downgrade would make it more difficult, expensive and restrictive to do so. Changes in general credit market conditions could also affect Signet’s ability to access capital at rates and on terms determined to be attractive.

If Signet’s ability to access capital becomes constrained, it may not be able to adequately fund its ongoing operations, dividends and share repurchases or planned initiatives and the Company’s interest costs will likely increase, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Risks Related to Human Capital 

The Company’s ability to recruit, train, motivate and retain suitably qualified sales associates could adversely impact sales and earnings.

Management regards the customer experience as an essential element in the success of its business. Competition for suitable sales associates or changes in labor and healthcare laws could require Signet to incur higher labor costs. A shortage of qualified individuals, higher labor costs and the execution of strategic initiatives, including those designed to improve the customer experience, could result in disruptions to the performance of sales associates and an inability to recruit, train, motivate and retain suitably qualified sales associates, which could adversely impact sales and earnings.

Signet’s success is dependent on the strength and effectiveness of its relationships with its various stakeholders whose behavior may be affected by its management of social, ethical and environmental risks.

Social, ethical and environmental matters influence Signet’s reputation, demand for merchandise by consumers, the ability to recruit staff, relations with suppliers and standing in the financial markets. Signet’s success is dependent on the strength and effectiveness of its relationships with its various stakeholders: customers, shareholders, employees and suppliers. In recent years, stakeholder expectations have increased, as these stakeholders expect businesses to consider social, ethical, and environmental impacts while making business decisions, and Signet’s success and reputation will depend on its ability to meet these higher expectations. Signet’s success also depends upon its reputation for integrity in sourcing its merchandise, which, if adversely affected could impact consumer sentiment and willingness to purchase Signet’s merchandise.

Collective bargaining activity could disrupt the Company’s operations, increase labor costs or interfere with the ability of management to focus on executing business strategies.

The employees of Signet’s diamond polishing factory in Gaborone, Botswana are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. If relationships with these employees become adverse, operations at the factory could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts and public demonstrations, which could negatively impact the Company’s diamond supply, increase costs and cause negative publicity. Labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs and limitations on the Company’s ability to take cost-saving measures during economic downturns. Any of these cost increases and constraints on Signet’s operations could adversely impact its results of operations.

30
Risks Related to Compliance

The Company’s exposure to legal proceedings, tax matters, and/or regulatory or other investigations could reduce earnings and cash, as well as negatively impact debt covenants, leverage ratios and its reputation and divert management attention.

Signet is involved in legal proceedings incidental to its business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. Any actual or potential claims against us, whether meritorious or not, or regulatory or other investigations, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation or litigation settlements, require significant amounts of management time, negatively impact Signet’s reputation and result in the diversion of significant operational resources. In addition, while Signet maintains insurance to cover various types of liabilities and loss, such coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of any damages and expenses and the timing of any reimbursement may not correspond to the liabilities accrued or incurred.

At any point in time, various tax years are subject to, or are in the process of, audit by various taxing authorities. To the extent that management’s estimates of settlements change, or the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact income tax in the period in which such determinations are made.

The Company’s ability to satisfy the accounting requirements for “hedge accounting,” or the default or insolvency of a counterparty to a hedging contract, as well as changes in estimates, assumptions or applications in other or new accounting policies, could adversely impact results.

Signet hedges a portion of its purchases of gold for both its North America and International segments and hedges the US dollar requirements of its International segment. The failure to satisfy the appropriate accounting requirements, or a default or insolvency of a counterparty to a contract, could increase the volatility of results and may impact the timing of recognition of gains and losses in the statement of operations, which could have a negative impact on Signet’s results. Other accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to the Company’s business, including but not limited to, revenue recognition for extended service plans and lifetime warranty agreements and pension accounting, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by the Company. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance.

Failure to comply with labor regulations could adversely affect the Company’s business.

Various state, federal and global laws and regulations govern Signet’s relationship with its employees. Some examples of these laws include requirements related to minimum wage, sick pay, overtime pay, paid time off, workers’ compensation rates, and healthcare reform. These laws and regulations change frequently, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. Failure by Signet to comply with labor regulations could result in fines and legal actions. In addition, the ability to recruit and retain staff could be harmed. These consequences could adversely affect the Company’s business.

The Company’s ability to comply with laws and regulations and adapt to changes thereto could adversely affect its business.

Signet’s policies and procedures are designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Changing legal and regulatory requirements in the US and other jurisdictions in which Signet operates have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment in which the business operates and the cost of compliance. Failure to comply with the various regulatory requirements may result in damage to Signet’s reputation, civil and criminal proceedings and liability, fines and penalties, and further increase the cost of regulatory compliance.

Changes in existing taxation laws, rules or practices may adversely affect the Company’s financial results.

The Company operates through various subsidiaries in numerous countries throughout the world. Consequently, Signet is subject to changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in the US or jurisdictions where any subsidiaries operate or are incorporated. Tax laws, treaties and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. The Company’s income tax expense is based upon interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time such expense was incurred. If these tax laws, treaties or regulations were to change or any tax authority were to successfully challenge Signet’s assessment of the effects of such laws, treaties and regulations in any country, this could result in a higher effective tax rate on the Company’s taxable earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.

31
In addition, the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (“OECD”) has published an action plan seeking multilateral cooperation to reform the taxation of multinational companies. Countries already have begun to implement some of these action items, and likely will continue to adopt more of them over the next several years. This may result in unilateral or uncoordinated local country application of the action items. Any such inconsistencies in the tax laws of countries where the Company operates or is incorporated may lead to increased uncertainty with respect to tax positions or otherwise increase the potential for double taxation. Proposals for US tax reform also potentially could have a significant adverse effect on us. In addition, the European Commission has conducted investigations in multiple countries focusing on whether local country tax legislation or rulings provide preferential tax treatment in violation of European Union state aid rules. Any impacts of these actions could increase the Company’s tax liabilities, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.

The Parent Company (as defined in Item 5) is incorporated in Bermuda. The directors intend to conduct the Parent Company’s affairs such that, based on current law and practice of the relevant tax authorities, the Parent Company will not become resident for tax purposes in any other territory. At the present time, there is no Bermuda income or profits tax, withholding tax, capital gains tax, capital transfer tax, estate duty or inheritance tax payable by the Parent Company or by its shareholders in respect of its common shares. The Parent Company has obtained an assurance from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 that, in the event that any legislation is enacted in Bermuda imposing any tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, such tax shall not, until March 31, 2035, be applicable to it or to any of its operations or to its shares, debentures or other obligations except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or is payable by it in respect of real property owned or leased by it in Bermuda. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, the Parent Company cannot be certain that it will not be subject to Bermuda tax after March 31, 2035. In the event the Parent Company were to become subject to any Bermuda tax after such date, it could have a material adverse effect on the Parent Company’s results of operations and financial condition.

International laws and regulations and foreign taxes could impact Signet’s ability to continue sourcing and manufacturing materials for its products on a global scale.

Signet is engaged in sourcing and manufacturing on a global scale, and as such, could be impacted by foreign governmental laws and regulations, foreign duties, taxes, and other charges on importing products, and international shipping delays or disruptions. Signet’s global operations are also subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other such anti-corruption laws. Additionally, labor relations and general political conditions in the countries where Signet sources and manufactures its materials could impact the ultimate shipment and receipt of such supplies and products.

Stakeholders may face difficulties in enforcing proceedings against Signet Jewelers Limited as it is domiciled in Bermuda.

It is doubtful whether courts in Bermuda would enforce judgments obtained by investors in other jurisdictions, including the US, Canada and the UK, against the Parent Company or its directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against the Parent Company or its directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

32
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES