Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  

Schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  

As a multinational company, Schlumberger generates revenue in more than 120 countries. Schlumberger’s functional currency is primarily the US dollar. Approximately 70% of Schlumberger’s revenue in 2021 was denominated in US dollars. However, outside the United States, a significant portion of Schlumberger’s expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. Therefore, when the US dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which Schlumberger conducts business, the US dollar-reported expenses will increase.  

Schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to manage the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on its earnings. Schlumberger enters into foreign currency forward contracts to provide a hedge against currency fluctuations on certain monetary assets and liabilities, and certain expenses denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. 

A 10% appreciation in the US dollar from the December 31, 2021 market rates would increase the unrealized value of Schlumberger’s forward contracts by $5 million. Conversely, a 10% depreciation in the US dollar from the December 31, 2021 market rates would decrease the unrealized value of Schlumberger’s forward contracts by $8 million. In either scenario, the gain or loss on the forward contract would be offset by the gain or loss on the underlying transaction, and therefore, would have no impact on future earnings. 

At December 31, 2021, contracts were outstanding for the US dollar equivalent of $7.7 billion in various foreign currencies, of which $6.0 billion related to hedges of debt balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency.  

Forward-Looking Statements  

This Form 10-K, as well as other statements we make, contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts. Such statements often contain words such as “expect,” “may,” “can,” “believe,” “predict,” “plan,” “potential,” “projected,” “projections,” “forecast,” “estimate,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “ambition,” “goal,” “target,” “think,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “will,” “see,” “likely,” and other similar words. Forward-looking statements address matters that are, to varying degrees, uncertain, such as statements about Schlumberger’s financial and performance targets and other forecasts or expectations regarding, or dependent on, its business outlook; growth for Schlumberger as a whole and for each of its Divisions (and for specified business lines, geographic areas or technologies within each Division); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; oil and natural gas prices; forecasts or expectations regarding energy transition and global climate change; improvements in operating procedures and technology; capital expenditures by Schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of Schlumberger, including digital and “fit for basin,” as well as the strategies of Schlumberger’s customers; Schlumberger’s effective tax rate; Schlumberger’s APS projects, joint ventures, and other alliances; Schlumberger’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic and its preparedness for other widespread health emergencies; access to raw materials; future global economic and geopolitical conditions; future liquidity; and future results of operations, such as margin levels. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, changing global economic conditions; changes in exploration and production spending by Schlumberger’s customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; the results of operations and financial condition of Schlumberger’s customers and suppliers; Schlumberger’s inability to achieve its financial and performance targets and other forecasts and expectations; Schlumberger’s inability to achieve net-zero carbon emissions goals or interim emissions reduction goals; general economic, geopolitical and business conditions in key regions of the world; foreign currency risk; pricing pressure; inflation; weather and seasonal factors; unfavorable effects of health pandemics; availability and cost of raw materials; operational modifications, delays or cancellations; challenges in Schlumberger’s supply chain; production declines; Schlumberger’s inability to recognize efficiencies and other intended benefits from its business strategies and initiatives, such as digital or Schlumberger New Energy, as well as its cost reduction strategies; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, including those related to offshore oil and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals and climate-related initiatives; the inability of technology to meet new challenges in exploration; the competitiveness of alternative energy sources or product substitutes; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in this Form 10-K and other filings that we make with the SEC. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of any such development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking and other statements in this Form 10-K regarding our environmental, social and other sustainability plans and goals are not an indication that these statements are necessarily material to investors or required to be disclosed in our filings with the SEC. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking environmental, social and sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. Statements in this Form 10-K are made as of January 26, 2022, and Schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 

29 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.