Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, certain commodity prices, including SOP and diesel fuel and foreign currency rates. We do not specifically hedge our exposure to these risks.

We are subject to market risks arising from changes in interest rates which relate primarily to our financing activities. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive debt instruments (variable rate debt) which in aggregate as of December 31, 2021 are 27.5% of total aggregate debt (including fixed- and variable-rate debt instruments). Our potential additional interest expense over one year that would result from a hypothetical, instantaneous and unfavorable change of 100 basis points in the interest rate on all of our variable rate obligations would be approximately $4.5 million on a pre-tax basis.

We have exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. We have subsidiaries in 16 foreign countries whose revenues and expenses are denominated in local currency and who use local currency denominated lines of credit for their funding needs. We translate results of operations of our international operations using an average exchange rate. We have quantified and described the impact of foreign currency translation on our revenues. We estimate, that based upon the amounts reported by individual countries during the year ended December 31, 2021 and prevailing exchange rates at that date, a 1% devaluation of all the functional currencies of each of our foreign businesses would result in an immaterial change to Net loss attributable to Stericycle, Inc. reported in our Consolidated Statements of Loss.

We have cumulative currency translation adjustment losses as of December 31, 2021 of approximately $218.8 million which are subject to continued fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency rates. In addition, to the extent that we sell substantially all of the operations within one country, similar to the transactions undertaken in Japan in 2021, Argentina in 2020 and Mexico and Chile in 2019, we would be required to recognize, in the Consolidated Statements of Loss, the accumulated currency translation losses or gains associated with that country.

The U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced in 2017 that it intends to phase out LIBOR by the end of 2021. The Company’s contracts with respect to its borrowings already contain comparable alternative reference rates that would automatically take effect upon the phasing out of LIBOR. 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data