ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market risks relating to our operations result primarily from the volatility in commodity prices, basis differentials and interest rates, as well as service costs and credit risk concentrations. We use fixed price swap agreements, options, swaptions, basis swaps and interest rate swaps to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flow due to fluctuations in the prices of natural gas, oil and certain NGLs along with interest rates. Our Board of Directors has approved risk management policies and procedures to utilize financial products for the reduction of defined commodity price risk. Utilization of financial products for the reduction of interest 

76

Table of Contents  

Index to Financial Statements 

rate risks is also overseen by our Board of Directors. These policies prohibit speculation with derivatives and limit swap agreements to counterparties with appropriate credit standings.

Credit Risk

Our exposure to concentrations of credit risk consists primarily of trade receivables and derivative contracts associated with commodities trading. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to the large number of our purchasers and their dispersion across geographic areas. For the year ended December 31, 2021, one purchaser accounted for 12% of our revenues. If we had completed the Indigo Merger and the GEPH Merger at the beginning of 2021, this same purchaser would have accounted for approximately 16% of our revenues. A default on this account could have a material impact on the Company. For the year ended December 31, 2020, one purchaser accounted for 10% of our revenues. See “Commodities Risk” below for discussion of credit risk associated with commodities trading.

Interest Rate Risk

As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $4.4 billion of outstanding senior notes with a weighted average interest rate of 5.68%, $550 million of borrowings under our Term Loan facility and $460 million of borrowings under our 2018 credit facility. We currently have an interest rate swap in effect to mitigate a portion of our exposure to volatility in interest rates. At December 31, 2021, we had long-term debt issuer ratings of Ba2 by Moody’s, BB by S&P and BB by Fitch Ratings. On September 1, 2021, S&P upgraded our bond rating to BB, and on January 6, 2022, S&P further upgraded our bond rating to BB+, which will have the effect of decreasing the interest rate on the 2025 notes to 5.95%, beginning with coupon payments paid after January 2022. Any further upgrades or downgrades in our public debt ratings by Moody’s or S&P could decrease or increase our cost of funds, respectively.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Excludes unamortized debt issuance costs and debt discounts.

(2)Outstanding senior notes weighted average interest rate includes the benefit of S&P upgrades from BB- to BB+, resulting in an improvement of the 2025 senior notes’ interest rate from 6.45% to 5.95%, beginning with coupon payments paid after January 2022.

Commodities Risk

We use fixed price swap agreements and options to protect sales of our production against the inherent risks of adverse price fluctuations or locational pricing differences between a published index and the NYMEX futures market. These swaps and options include transactions in which one party will pay a fixed price (or variable price) for a notional quantity in exchange for receiving a variable price (or fixed price) based on a published index (referred to as price swaps) and transactions in which parties agree to pay a price based on two different indices (referred to as basis swaps).

The primary market risks relating to our derivative contracts are the volatility in market prices and basis differentials for our production. However, the market price risk is offset by the gain or loss recognized upon the related sale or purchase of the production that is financially protected. Credit risk relates to the risk of loss as a result of non-performance by our counterparties. The counterparties are primarily major banks and integrated energy companies that management believes present minimal credit risks. The credit quality of each counterparty and the level of financial exposure we have to each counterparty are closely monitored to limit our credit risk exposure. Additionally, we perform both quantitative and qualitative assessments of these counterparties based on their credit ratings and credit default swap rates where applicable. We have not incurred any counterparty losses related to non-performance and do not anticipate any losses given the information we have currently. However, we cannot be certain that we will not experience such losses in the future. The fair value of our derivative assets and liabilities includes a non-performance risk factor. We refer you to Note 6 and Note 8 of the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional details about our derivative instruments and their fair value.

77

Table of Contents  

Index to Financial Statements 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA