ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. These risks, along with other business risks, impact our cost of capital. It is our policy to manage our debt structure and foreign exchange exposure in order to manage capital costs, control financial risks and maintain financial flexibility over the long term. In managing market risks, we employ derivatives according to documented policies and procedures, including interest rate swaps, interest rate locks, foreign currency exchange contracts and combined interest rate foreign currency contracts (cross-currency swaps). We do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. We do not foresee significant changes in the strategies we use to manage market risk in the near future.

52

AT&T Inc.

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

One of the most significant assumptions used in estimating our postretirement benefit obligations is the assumed weighted-average discount rate, which is the hypothetical rate at which the projected benefit obligations could be effectively settled or paid out to participants. We determined our discount rate based on a range of factors, including a yield curve composed of the rates of return on several hundred high-quality, fixed income corporate bonds available at the measurement date and corresponding to the related expected durations of future cash outflows for the obligations. In recent years, the discount rates have been increasingly volatile, and on average have been lower than in historical periods. Lower discount rates used to measure our pension and postretirement plans result in higher obligations. Future increases in these rates could result in lower obligations, improved funded status and actuarial gains.

Interest Rate Risk

The majority of our financial instruments are medium- and long-term fixed-rate notes and debentures. Changes in interest rates can lead to significant fluctuations in the fair value of these instruments. The principal amounts by expected maturity, average interest rate and fair value of our liabilities that are exposed to interest rate risk are described in Notes 12 and 13. In managing interest expense, we control our mix of fixed and floating rate debt through term loans, floating rate notes, and interest rate swaps. We have established interest rate risk limits that we closely monitor by measuring interest rate sensitivities in our debt and interest rate derivatives portfolios.

Most of our foreign-denominated long-term debt has been swapped from fixed-rate or floating-rate foreign currencies to fixed-rate U.S. dollars at issuance through cross-currency swaps, removing interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk associated with the underlying interest and principal payments. Likewise, periodically we enter into interest rate locks to partially hedge the risk of increases in the benchmark interest rate during the period leading up to the probable issuance of fixed-rate debt. We expect gains or losses in our cross-currency swaps and interest rate locks to offset the losses and gains in the financial instruments they hedge.

We had no interest rate swaps and no interest rate locks at December 31, 2021.

Foreign Exchange Risk

We principally use foreign exchange contracts to hedge certain film production costs denominated in foreign currencies. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange risk through our foreign affiliates and equity investments in foreign companies. We have designated €1,450 million aggregate principal amount of debt as a hedge of the variability of certain Euro-denominated net investments of our subsidiaries. The gain or loss on the debt that is designated as, and is effective as, an economic hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation is recorded as a currency translation adjustment within accumulated other comprehensive income, net on the consolidated balance sheet.

Through cross-currency swaps, most of our foreign-denominated debt has been swapped from fixed-rate or floating-rate foreign currencies to fixed-rate U.S. dollars at issuance, removing interest rate and foreign currency exchange risk associated with the underlying interest and principal payments. We expect gains or losses in our cross-currency swaps to offset the gains and losses in the financial instruments they hedge. We had cross-currency swaps with a notional value of $40,737 and a fair value of $(2,959) outstanding at December 31, 2021.

For the purpose of assessing specific risks, we use a sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have on the fair value of our financial instruments and results of operations. We had foreign exchange forward contracts with a notional value of $30 and a fair value of $(33) outstanding at December 31, 2021.

53

AT&T Inc.

Report of Management

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The integrity and objectivity of the data in these financial statements, including estimates and judgments relating to matters not concluded by year end, are the responsibility of management, as is all other information included in the Annual Report, unless otherwise indicated.

The financial statements of AT&T Inc. (AT&T) have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. Management has made available to Ernst & Young LLP all of AT&T’s financial records and related data, as well as the minutes of stockholders’ and directors’ meetings. Furthermore, management believes that all representations made to Ernst & Young LLP during its audit were valid and appropriate.

Management maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by AT&T is recorded, processed, summarized, accumulated and communicated to its management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure, and reported within the time periods specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms.

Management also seeks to ensure the objectivity and integrity of its financial data by the careful selection of its managers, by organizational arrangements that provide an appropriate division of responsibility and by communication programs aimed at ensuring that its policies, standards and managerial authorities are understood throughout the organization.

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors meets periodically with management, the internal auditors and the independent auditors to review the manner in which they are performing their respective responsibilities and to discuss auditing, internal accounting controls and financial reporting matters. Both the internal auditors and the independent auditors periodically meet alone with the Audit Committee and have access to the Audit Committee at any time.

Assessment of Internal Control

The management of AT&T is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. AT&T’s internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the company’s management and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.

AT&T management assessed the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013 framework). Based on its assessment, AT&T management believes that, as of December 31, 2021, the company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.

Ernst & Young LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the financial statements included in this Annual Report, has issued an attestation report on the company’s internal control over financial reporting.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

54

AT&T Inc.

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of AT&T Inc.

Opinion on the Financial Statements 

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AT&T Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in stockholders’ equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 16, 2022 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion 

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

Critical Audit Matters 

The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.

Discount rates used in determining pension and postretirement benefit obligations

Description of the MatterAt December 31, 2021, the Company’s pension benefit obligation was $57,212 million and exceeded the fair value of defined benefit pension plan assets of $54,401 million, resulting in an unfunded benefit obligation of $2,811 million. Additionally, at December 31, 2021, the Company’s postretirement benefit obligation was $12,552 million and exceeded the fair value of postretirement plan assets of $3,198 million, resulting in an unfunded benefit obligation of $9,354 million. As explained in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company updates the assumptions used to measure the defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit obligations, including discount rates, at December 31 or upon a remeasurement event. The Company determines the discount rates used to measure the obligations based on the development of a yield curve using high-quality corporate bonds selected to yield cash flows that correspond to the expected timing and amount of the expected future benefit payments. 

55

AT&T Inc.

Auditing the defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit obligations was complex due to the judgmental nature of the actuarial assumptions made by management, primarily the discount rate, used in the Company’s measurement process. The discount rate has a significant effect on the measurement of the defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit obligations, and auditing the discount rate was complex because it required an evaluation of the credit quality of the corporate bonds used to develop the discount rate and the correlation of those bonds’ cash inflows to the timing and amount of future expected benefit payments.

How We 

Addressed the Matter in Our 

Audit

We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of certain controls over management’s review of the determination of the discount rates used in the defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit obligations calculations.

To test the determination of the discount rate used in the calculation of the defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit obligations, we performed audit procedures that focused on evaluating, with the assistance of our actuarial specialists, the determination of the discount rates, among other procedures. For example, we evaluated the selected yield curve used to determine the discount rates applied in measuring the defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit obligations. As part of this assessment, we considered the credit quality of the corporate bonds that comprise the yield curve and compared the timing and amount of cash flows at maturity with the expected amounts and duration of the related benefit payments.

Evaluation of goodwill for impairment

Description of the Matter

At December 31, 2021, the Company’s goodwill balance was $133,223 million. As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, reporting unit goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment. Estimating fair values in connection with these impairment evaluations involves the utilization of discounted cash flow models and market multiples valuation approaches.

Auditing management’s annual goodwill impairment test for the reporting units was complex because the estimation of fair values involves subjective management assumptions, such as estimates of the projected rates of discrete and long-term growth of cash flows and weighted average cost of capital. These assumptions are forward-looking and could be affected by shifts in the evolving market landscape. Changes in these assumptions can have a material effect on the determination of fair value.

How We Addressed the

Matter in Our 

Audit

We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s impairment evaluation processes. Our procedures included testing controls over management’s review of the valuation models and the significant assumptions described above.

Our audit procedures to test management’s impairment evaluations included, among others, assessing the valuation methodologies and significant assumptions discussed above and the underlying data used to develop such assumptions. For example, we compared the significant assumptions to current industry, market and economic trends, and other guideline companies in the same industry. Where appropriate, we evaluated whether changes to the Company’s business model, customer base and other factors would affect the significant assumptions. We also assessed the historical accuracy of management’s estimates and performed independent sensitivity analyses. We involved our valuation specialists to assist us in performing our audit procedures to test the estimated fair values of the Company’s reporting units. 

56

AT&T Inc.

Accounting for the investment in DIRECTV

Description of the Matter

As discussed in Notes 6 and 10, on July 31, 2021, the Company closed on a transaction with TPG to form a new company named DIRECTV Entertainment Holdings, LLC (DIRECTV). In connection with the transaction, the Company contributed its U.S. Video business unit to DIRECTV for $4,250 million of junior preferred units, an additional distribution preference of $4,200 million and a 70% economic interest in common units. DIRECTV was considered a variable interest entity for accounting purposes. The Company concluded that it was not the primary beneficiary and accordingly deconsolidated DIRECTV and accounted for its investment under the equity method of accounting. The initial fair value of the Company’s investment in DIRECTV on July 31, 2021 was $6,852 million, which was determined using a discounted cash flow model, reflecting distribution rights and preference of the individual instruments.

Auditing management’s application of the variable interest entity consolidation model to this transaction, and its initial estimate of the fair value of the Company’s investment in DIRECTV, required significant judgment. In particular, management’s assessment of whether the Company is the primary beneficiary under the variable interest model required significant judgment to determine the activities of the investee that most significantly impact the investee’s economics, and management applied significant judgment in determining and applying the valuation model used to estimate the initial fair value of the Company’s investment in DIRECTV. 

How We Addressed the

Matter in Our 

Audit

We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s application of the variable interest entity consolidation model, including the identification of the activities that most significantly impact DIRECTV’s economics, and its selection and application of the model used to estimate the initial fair value of the Company’s investment in DIRECTV. 

Our audit procedures to test the appropriateness of management’s application of the variable interest entity consolidation model to the DIRECTV transaction included, among others, evaluating the design and purpose of the variable interest entity, and assessing the terms of the arrangement, that were relevant to the evaluation of DIRECTV’s significant activities. Our procedures to test the valuation of AT&T’s investment in DIRECTV included, among others, involving our valuation specialists in assessing the reasonableness of the selected valuation methodology, performing an independent calculation, and performing sensitivity analysis for certain assumptions in the model. 

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1999. 

Dallas, Texas

February 16, 2022

57

AT&T Inc.

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of AT&T Inc.

Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

We have audited AT&T Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, AT&T Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the 2021 consolidated financial statements of the Company and our report dated February 16, 2022 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 

Basis for Opinion 

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of Management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.

Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP 

Dallas, Texas

February 16, 2022

58

AT&T Inc.

Dollars in millions except per share amounts

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA