Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

Our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable and fixed rate debt and (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our foreign operations. 

Interest Rate Risk. As of December 31, 2021, we had an aggregate of $2.8 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates, comprised of borrowings under the ABL, accounts receivable securitization and term loan facilities. See note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for the amounts outstanding, and the interest rates thereon, as of December 31, 2021 under these facilities. As of December 31, 2021, based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, our annual after-tax earnings would decrease by approximately $21 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt.

The amount of variable rate indebtedness outstanding may fluctuate significantly. For additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements.

At December 31, 2021, we had an aggregate of $6.9 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at fixed rates. A one percentage point decrease in market interest rates as of December 31, 2021 would increase the fair value of our fixed rate indebtedness by approximately six percent. For additional information concerning the fair value and terms of our fixed rate debt, see note 12 (see “Fair Value of Financial Instruments”) and note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Currency Exchange Risk. We primarily operate in the U.S. and Canada, and have a limited presence in Europe, Australia and New Zealand. During the year ended December 31, 2021, our foreign subsidiaries accounted for $955, or 10 percent, of our total revenue of $9.716 billion, and $134, or 7 percent, of our total pretax income of $1.846 billion. Based on the size of our foreign operations relative to the Company as a whole, we do not believe that a 10 percent change in exchange rates would have a material impact on our earnings. We do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes.

42
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data