Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Financial Risk Management

We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, which could affect operating results, financial position and cash flows. We manage our exposure to these market risks through our regular operating and financing activities and, when appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We utilized derivative financial instruments to hedge economic exposures, as well as reduce earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from shifts in market rates. 

Recent market events have not caused us to materially modify or change our financial risk management strategies with respect to our exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risk. Refer to Note 17 - Financial Instruments in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on our financial risk management. 

Foreign Exchange Risk Management

Assuming a 10% appreciation or depreciation in foreign currency exchange rates from the quoted foreign currency exchange rates at December 31, 2021, it would not significantly change the fair value of foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities as all material currency asset and liability exposures were economically hedged as of December 31, 2021. A 10% appreciation or depreciation of the U.S. Dollar against all currencies from the quoted foreign currency exchange rates at December 31, 2021 would have an impact on our cumulative translation adjustment portion of equity of approximately $393 million. The net amount invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates, primarily Xerox Limited and Xerox Canada Inc. and translated into U.S. Dollars using the year-end exchange rates, was approximately $3.9 billion at December 31, 2021. 

Interest Rate Risk Management

The consolidated average interest rate associated with our total debt for 2021, 2020 and 2019 approximated 4.8%, 4.8%, and 4.9%, respectively. Interest expense includes the impact of our interest rate derivatives. 

Virtually all customer-financing assets earn fixed rates of interest. The interest rates on a significant portion of the Company's term debt are fixed. 

As of December 31, 2021, of our total debt of $4.2 billion, a total of $560 million of secured borrowings carried variable interest rates, of which $293 million has a variable interest rate based on LIBOR plus a spread and the remaining $267 million has a variable interest rate based on the financial institution's cost of funds plus a spread. 

The fair market values of our fixed-rate financial instruments are sensitive to changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2021, a 10% change in market interest rates would change the fair values of such financial instruments by approximately $68 million.

Refer to Note 16 - Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our interest expense and our secured borrowings.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data