EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

NEWS RELEASE 

January 28, 2016 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

CROWN CASTLE ANNOUNCES PROPOSED  

OFFERING OF SENIOR NOTES  

January 28, 2016 — HOUSTON, TEXAS — Crown Castle International Corp. (NYSE: CCI) (“Crown Castle”) announced today that it is commencing a public offering of senior notes due 2021 and 2026, subject to market and other conditions. The senior notes will be issued by Crown Castle International Corp. Crown Castle expects to use net proceeds from the offering to repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings under its $5.5 billion Senior Unsecured Credit Facility, including under the $1.0 billion Senior Unsecured 364-Day Revolving Credit Facility.  

Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Citigroup, J.P. Morgan, Mizuho Securities and RBC Capital Markets are the joint book-running managers of the offering.  

The offering is being made pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The offering will be made only by means of a prospectus supplement and the accompanying base prospectus, copies of which may be obtained by contacting any joint book-running manager using the information provided below. An electronic copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement, together with the accompanying prospectus, is also available on the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov.  

This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities described herein, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or other jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.  

CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

This press release contains forward-looking statements that are based on Crown Castle management’s current expectations. Such statements include plans, projections and estimates regarding the use of proceeds from and timing of the proposed offering. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including prevailing market conditions and other factors. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected. More information about potential risk factors that could affect Crown Castle and its results is included in Crown Castle’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The term “including,” and any variation thereof, means “including, without limitation.”  

The Foundation for a Wireless World.  

CrownCastle.com  

 News Release continued:   Page 2  

ABOUT CROWN CASTLE  

Crown Castle provides wireless carriers with the infrastructure they need to keep people connected and businesses running. With approximately 40,000 towers and 17,000 small cell nodes supported by approximately 16,000 miles of fiber, Crown Castle is the nation’s largest provider of shared wireless infrastructure with a significant presence in the top 100 US markets.  

JOINT BOOK-RUNNING MANAGERS CONTACT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Foundation for a Wireless World.  

CrownCastle.com