UNITED STATES

 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

 Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT

 Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the 

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 5, 2016 

DELTA AIR LINES, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

P.O. Box 20706, Atlanta, Georgia 30320-6001 

(Address of principal executive offices) 

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (404) 715-2600 

Registrant’s Web site address: www.delta.com 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): 

o Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) 

o Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) 

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) 

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) 

Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure. 

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (“Delta”) issued today an Investor Update which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. 

Delta also issued today a press release reporting December 2015 financial and operating results. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K. 

In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8−K, the information in this report (including the exhibits) that is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8−K shall not be deemed to be “filed” for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that section, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth in such filing. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD. 

Statements in this Form 8-K and the attached exhibits that are not historical facts, including statements regarding our estimates, expectations, beliefs, intentions, projections or strategies for the future, may be “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the estimates, expectations, beliefs, intentions, projections and strategies reflected in or suggested by the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the cost of aircraft fuel; the availability of aircraft fuel; the impact of rebalancing our hedge portfolio, recording mark-to-market adjustments or posting collateral in connection with our fuel hedge contracts; the possible effects of accidents involving our aircraft; the restrictions that financial covenants in our financing agreements will have on our financial and business operations; labor issues; interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub or gateway airports; disruptions or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure; our dependence on technology in our operations; the effects of weather, natural disasters and seasonality on our business; the effects of an extended disruption in services provided by third party regional carriers; failure or inability of insurance to cover a significant liability at Monroe’s Trainer refinery; the impact of environmental regulation on the Trainer refinery, including costs related to renewable fuel standard regulations; our ability to retain management and key employees; competitive conditions in the airline industry; the effects of extensive government regulation on our business; the sensitivity of the airline industry to prolonged periods of stagnant or weak economic conditions; the effects of terrorist attacks or geopolitical conflict; and the effects of the rapid spread of contagious illnesses.  

Additional information concerning risks and uncertainties that could cause differences between actual results and forward-looking statements is contained in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Dec. 31, 2014. Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which represent our views only as of January 5, 2016, and which we have no current intention to update. 

Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. 

(d) Exhibits. 

   Exhibit 99.1 Investor Update 

   Exhibit 99.2 Press Release dated January 5, 2016 titled “Delta Reports Financial and Operating Performance for December 2015”  

2 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

3 

EXHIBIT INDEX 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

4