EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

DANAHER CEO TO COMMENT ON FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE  

Washington, D.C., January 11, 2016 - Danaher Corporation (NYSE:DHR) (the “Company”) announced that its President and Chief Executive Officer, Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., will comment tomorrow on the Company’s fourth quarter 2015 performance in a presentation at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference in San Francisco, CA at 11:30 a.m. PST. Mr. Joyce will communicate that Danaher’s fourth quarter 2015 adjusted diluted net earnings per share is expected to be approximately at the mid-point of the Company’s previously announced guidance.  

As previously announced, Danaher will hold its quarterly earnings conference call for the fourth quarter and year-end 2015 on Tuesday, January 26, 2016 at 8:00 a.m. EST.  

ABOUT DANAHER  

Danaher is a global science and technology innovator committed to helping its customers solve complex challenges and improving quality of life around the world. Its family of world class brands have unparalleled leadership positions in some of the most demanding and attractive industries, including health care, environmental and industrial. The company’s globally diverse team of 80,000 associates is united by a common culture and operating system, the Danaher Business System. In 2014, Danaher generated $19.9 billion in revenue and its market capitalization exceeded $60 billion. For more information please visit www.danaher.com.  

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS  

Statements in this release that are not strictly historical, including the statements regarding the Company’s anticipated adjusted diluted net earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2015 and any other statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future, are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results, developments and business decisions to differ materially from those suggested or indicated by such forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, deterioration of or instability in the economy, the markets we serve and the financial markets, the impact of our restructuring activities on our ability to grow, contractions or growth rates and cyclicality of markets we serve, competition, our ability to develop and successfully market new products and technologies and expand into new markets, the potential for improper conduct by our employees, agents or business partners, our ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions and successfully complete divestitures and other dispositions, contingent liabilities relating to acquisitions and divestitures, our ability to successfully consummate the separation of Danaher into two public companies and realize the anticipated benefits of that transaction, our compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including regulations relating to medical devices and the healthcare industry) and changes in applicable laws and regulations, our ability to effectively address cost reductions and other changes in the healthcare industry, risks relating to potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, currency exchange rates, tax audits and changes in our tax rate and income tax liabilities, litigation and other contingent liabilities including intellectual property and environmental, health and safety matters, risks relating to product, service or software defects, product liability and recalls, risks relating to product manufacturing, the impact of our debt obligations on our operations and liquidity, our relationships with and the performance of our channel partners, commodity costs and surcharges,  

 our ability to adjust purchases and manufacturing capacity to reflect market conditions, reliance on sole sources of supply, labor matters, international economic, political, legal, compliance and business factors, disruptions relating to man-made and natural disasters, security breaches or other disruptions of our information technology systems and pension plan costs. Additional information regarding the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements is available in our SEC filings, including our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2015. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release and the Company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events and developments or otherwise.  

CONTACT   

Matthew E. Gugino  

Vice President, Investor Relations  

Danaher Corporation  

2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Suite 800W  

Washington, D.C. 20037  

Telephone: (202) 828-0850  

Fax: (202) 828-0860