Exhibit   

Entergy

639 Loyola Avenue

New Orleans, LA 70113 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ENTERGY REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR EARNINGS, 

INITIATES 2016 OPERATIONAL EARNINGS GUIDANCE

2015 results consistent with latest guidance; accomplishments set stage for future growth

NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) reported fourth quarter 2015 earnings per share of 56 cents on an as-reported basis and $1.58 on an operational basis. For the full year, the company realized a loss of 99 cents per share on an as-reported basis and operational EPS of $6.00 per share. The as-reported loss resulted from asset impairments in the third and fourth quarters reflecting the effects of strategic decisions in the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business to reduce the company’s exposure to volatile and poorly structured wholesale power markets.

“In 2015, we successfully worked through an extensive to-do list aimed at laying the foundation for steady and predictable Utility, Parent & Other earnings growth and improving certainty in our merchant generation business. Some of these actions, while necessary, were difficult for our stakeholders and impacted our as-reported financial results for the year,” said Entergy chairman and chief executive officer Leo Denault. “On an operational basis, our final 2015 results are in line with the expectations we shared with you last fall. We are also initiating 2016 guidance indicating strong Utility growth in large part due to the strategic accomplishments of last year, again consistent with indications on Utility, Parent & Other growth since the middle of last year and the ranges we gave at our last Analyst Day in 2014.”

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Additional business highlights included the following:

•2016 operational EPS guidance range is $4.95 to $5.75 for Entergy consolidated; the range for Utility, Parent & Other Adjusted EPS is $4.20 to $4.50. 

•Entergy Arkansas, Inc. filed an unopposed settlement agreement in its rate case.

•The sale of the Rhode Island State Energy Center power plant closed in December.

•Entergy announced the shutdown date for the James A. FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant is planned to be Jan. 27, 2017.

•Independent system operators’ reliability studies found that FitzPatrick and the Pilgrim Nuclear Power Station (beyond June 1, 2019) are not required for their respective regions.

•For the 18th consecutive year, the Edison Electric Institute awarded Entergy’s storm team with a national storm restoration award.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Totals may not foot due to rounding

Business Unit Results

In addition to the summary business unit discussions below and results provided in Appendix A, a comprehensive analysis of quarterly and year-to-date variances is provided in Appendix B to this release. Appendix A also provides information on operating cash flow by business.

Utility, Parent & Other Results

For fourth quarter 2015, Utility, Parent and Other EPS were $1.42 on an as-reported and an operational basis. In comparison, 2014 fourth quarter earnings were 35 cents per share on an as-reported basis and 36 cents per share on an operational basis. Operational results for the 2015 quarterly period included a significant income tax item, a portion of which will be shared with customers of Entergy Louisiana, LLC. The quarter’s results also reflected the effects of productive 

investments as well as milder weather, charges reflecting progress in resolving long outstanding regulatory matters and higher operating expenses. 

Billed retail sales volume decreased (1.1) percent quarter-to-quarter on the effects of weather. On a weather-adjusted basis, billed volume increased 0.8 percent; the components of the weather-adjusted sales growth were:

•Weather-adjusted residential sales increase of 1.6 percent,

•Commercial sales slight decrease of (0.1) percent on a weather-adjusted basis,

•Weather-adjusted governmental sales increase of 4.2 percent and

•Industrial sales increase of 0.6 percent.

Industrial sales were higher on continued growth for new and expansion customers. Sales to existing industrial customers declined on lower usage from large chlor-alkali customers, due to both outages as well as softer economics. Partially offsetting was favorable macro conditions for existing petroleum refining customers who operated at high levels.

Utility results reflected rate adjustments for the Ninemile Point Unit 6 plant that went in service at the end of 2014 and the Entergy Mississippi, Inc. rate case. Revenue increases from rate actions were largely offset by changes in other line items (e.g., non-fuel operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses). 

For the full year, 2015 Utility, Parent and Other EPS were $4.97 on an as-reported and an operational basis. In comparison, 2014 earnings were $3.60 per share on an as-reported basis and $3.64 per share on an operational basis. Operational results for 2015 included significant income tax items, as discussed above. Results also reflected productive investments and favorable weather, as well as higher operating expenses.

For a schedule of Utility, Parent & Other Adjusted EPS for the quarter and full year excluding special items and weather, normalizing tax items and excluding utility charges, see Appendix C. Appendix C also contains additional details on the Utility’s performance for both periods.

Entergy Wholesale Commodities Results

EWC operational adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization were $70 million in fourth quarter 2015, compared to $183 million in the same period a year ago. The quarter-over-quarter decrease was driven largely by lower energy and capacity prices for EWC’s nuclear assets. Quarter-over-quarter results were also affected by impairments of FitzPatrick and Pilgrim recorded in third quarter 2015 which lowered fuel and non-fuel O&M expenses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Totals may not foot due to rounding

EWC reported an as-reported loss of (86) cents per share in the current quarter compared to a fourth quarter 2014 as-reported EPS of 31 cents. Fourth quarter 2015 as-reported results included non-cash asset impairments for Palisades and EWC’s wind investment, which were classified as a special item and therefore, excluded from operational results. The impairment charges resulted from analyzing EWC’s remaining assets for impairment in light of Entergy’s decisions to operate its other northern U.S. single unit nuclear sites for a shorter period than their operating license expiration dates and the sale of non-nuclear assets in the fourth quarter 2015. Depressed market prices were a significant factor in the analysis resulting in impairment charges for Palisades and the wind investment. The Palisades impairment does not reflect any decision to modify the continuing operations of the plant, which operates under a power purchase agreement that runs until April 2022. The sale of RISEC (a non-nuclear asset) in the current quarter resulted in a 56 cent per share gain, which is also classified as a special and excluded from operational results.

Fourth quarter 2015 EWC operational earnings were 16 cents per share, compared to 39 cents per share in the fourth quarter 2014. This decline was driven by lower operational adjusted EBITDA. The current quarter results also included income tax items.

For the year, EWC reported a loss of $5.96 per share on an as-reported basis and earnings of $1.03 per share on an operational basis, compared to as-reported EPS of $1.62 and operational EPS of $2.19 in 2014. The decline in operational earnings was driven by lower energy and capacity revenue for the nuclear fleet, which is also reflected in the lower operational adjusted EBITDA. The closure of VY at the end of 2014 also contributed to the reduced operational adjusted EBITDA and operational EPS.

For additional details on EWC’s performance for the quarter and full year, see Appendix D and the webcast slide presentation.

Earnings Guidance 

Entergy is initiating 2016 operational earnings guidance in the range of $4.95 to $5.75 per share. The Utility, Parent & Other Adjusted EPS guidance range is $4.20 to $4.50. See the webcast slide presentation for additional details.

Earnings Teleconference

A teleconference will be held at 10 a.m. CT on Thursday, Feb. 18, 2016, to discuss Entergy’s fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings announcement and the company’s financial performance. The teleconference may be accessed by visiting Entergy’s website at www.entergy.com or by dialing (855) 893-9849, conference ID 85410755, no more than 15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The webcast slide presentation is also posted to Entergy’s website concurrent with this release, which was issued before market open on the day of the call. A replay of the teleconference will be available on Entergy’s website at www.entergy.com and by telephone. The telephone replay will be available through Feb. 25, 2016, by dialing (855) 859-2056, conference ID 85410755. This release and the webcast slide presentation are also available on the Entergy Investor Relations mobile web app at iretr.com. 

Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, including nearly 10,000 megawatts of nuclear power. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.8 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of approximately $11.5 billion and more than 13,000 employees.

Entergy Corporation’s common stock is listed on the New York and Chicago exchanges under the symbol “ETR.”

Additional information regarding Entergy’s quarterly and full year results of operations, regulatory proceedings and other matters is available in Entergy’s earnings release package, a copy of which will be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and the webcast slide presentation. The earnings package contains appendices to this release and financial statements. Both the earnings release package and webcast slide presentation are available on Entergy’s Investor Relations website at www.entergy.com/investor_relations and on Entergy’s Investor Relations mobile web app at iretr.com. 

-30-

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, among other things, Entergy’s 2016 earnings guidance, its current financial and operational outlook, and other statements of Entergy’s plans, beliefs or expectations included in this news release. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 

Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed elsewhere in this news release and in Entergy’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Entergy’s other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery 

mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear plant relicensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami; (e) changes in decommissioning trust fund values or earnings or in the timing or cost of decommissioning FitzPatrick, Pilgrim or VY or any of Entergy’s other nuclear plant sites; (f) legislative and regulatory actions and risks and uncertainties associated with claims or litigation by or against Entergy and its subsidiaries; (g) risks and uncertainties associated with strategic transactions that Entergy or its subsidiaries may undertake, including the pending acquisition of the Union Power Station near El Dorado, Arkansas, including the risk that any such transaction may not be completed as and when expected and the risk that the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized and (h) economic conditions and conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements.

For definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures and abbreviations and acronyms used in the quarterly materials, see Appendix F and Appendix G. 

Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Package

Appendices

Seven appendices are presented in this section as follows:

•Appendix A: Consolidated Results and Special Items

•Appendix B: Variance Analysis

•Appendix C: Utility Financial and Performance Measures

•Appendix D: EWC Performance Measures

•Appendix E: Financial Performance Measures

•Appendix F: Definitions, Abbreviations and Acronyms

•Appendix G: GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations

Also included in this earnings release package are:

•Financial Statements

Accompanying the earnings package is a webcast slide presentation.

This page intentionally left blank

A: Consolidated Results and Special Items

Appendix A-1 provides a comparative summary of consolidated EPS for fourth quarter and year-to-date 2015 versus 2014, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Detailed earnings variance analyses are included in Appendix B-1 and Appendix B-2. 

Appendix A-2 provides the components of OCF contributed by each business with current quarter and year-to-date comparisons.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Totals may not foot due to rounding

The primary driver of the $(56) million quarter-over-quarter decrease was lower EWC net revenue, partially offset by lower pension funding. Favorable changes in the timing of working capital at the Utility primarily in deferred fuel from low natural gas prices were largely offset by unfavorable changes in working capital at EWC. Intercompany income tax payments contributed to the line of business variances, but netted to a small number at the consolidated level.

The primary drivers of the year-over-year $(599) million decrease were lower EWC net revenue and receipt of securitization funds in 2014. Favorable deferred fuel changes at the Utility also benefitted the full year period. Intercompany income tax payments affected line of business variances but had a small bottom-line impact.

Appendix A-3 and Appendix A-4 list special items by business. Amounts are shown on both an EPS basis and a net income basis. Special items are those events that are not routine. Special items are included in as-reported EPS consistent with GAAP, but are excluded from operational EPS. As a result, operational EPS is considered a non-GAAP measure. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Totals may not foot due to rounding

B: Variance Analysis 

Appendix B-1 and Appendix B-2 provide details of current quarter and year-to-date 2015 versus 2014 as-reported and operational earnings variance analysis for Utility, EWC, Parent & Other and Consolidated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See appendix in the webcast slide presentation for more details on the effects of the VY closure on EWC line item variances.

(a)The current quarter and year-to-date increases were due primarily to the income tax item of approximately $334 million resulting from the ELL business combination; this was partly offset by customer sharing recorded as a regulatory charge (included in net revenue in (j)). An audit settlement in Mississippi of $15 million also contributed to the increases. The year-to-date increase also reflected a first quarter 2015 adjustment of $24 million involving the reversal of a portion of the provision for uncertain tax provisions related to interest accrual. Partially offsetting was a state income tax item of $10 million in third quarter 2014.

(b)The increases in the current quarter and year-to-date periods were due largely to state tax effects from the 2015 settlement on the 2008/2009 audit. 

(c)The current quarter and year-to-date increases were attributable to the closure of VY at the end of 2014.

(d)The as-reported increases in the current quarter and year-to-date periods reflect the gain on sale of the RISEC facility.

(e)The current quarter and year-to-date decreases were due primarily to additions to plant, including Ninemile 6 placed in service in December 2014, as well as higher depreciation rates implemented at EMI for 2015.

(f)The decreases in the current quarter and year-to-date periods were due partly to higher ad valorem taxes. In addition, fourth quarter 2014 results reflected the franchise tax settlement in Louisiana.

(g)The as-reported decrease in the current quarter was due largely to the asset impairment on EWC’s 50% ownership interest in the Top Deer wind generation investment (accounted for under the equity method of accounting). The year-to-date operational increase was due primarily to higher realized gains on decommissioning trusts, including the rebalancing of VY's decommissioning trust portfolio.

(h)The current quarter decrease was driven by regulatory charges arising from the Waterford 3 replacement steam generator prudence review proceeding and the System Agreement termination settlement agreement. Partially offsetting was an earlier regulatory charge in 2014 for the Waterford 3 prudence review proceeding.

(i)The as-reported current quarter and year-to-date decreases reflected the fourth quarter 2015 non-cash impairment charges and related write-offs for the Palisades nuclear plant. The year-to date decrease also reflected third quarter 2015 impairment charges and related write-offs for the Pilgrim and FitzPatrick plants. Partially offsetting the year-to-date decrease was a third quarter 2014 charge for an updated VY decommissioning cost study.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(j)The current quarter decrease was attributable to the fourth quarter 2015 ELL business combination regulatory charge for customer sharing of $0.37 per share and the regulatory charge for the Waterford 3 prudence review proceeding of $0.09 per share (a portion of which is reflected in asset impairment in (h)). The effects of weather, which was milder-than-normal in the current quarter compared to colder-than-normal in fourth quarter 2014, also contributed. Weather for the full year was positive in both periods, but more favorable in 2015 compared to 2014. Annual net revenue was higher due to increased weather-adjusted sales volume and the Louisiana FRP rate adjustments for placing Ninemile 6 in rates and the EMI rate case. 

(k)The current quarter and year-to-date decreases were largely due to the retirement of VY at the end of 2014 along with lower realized nuclear capacity and energy pricing on the operating plants.

(l)The decrease in the year-to-date period was primarily the result of a Louisiana tax law change effective July 1, 2015.

(m)The year-to-date decrease is due to the elimination of intersegment activity, primarily higher affiliate dividend income resulting from Hurricane Isaac Act 55 financing (offset at Utility).

(n)The increase year-to-date is attributable largely to lower VY property taxes due to the plant’s closure in late 2014.

(o)The year-to-date increase was mainly attributable to the absence of VY depreciation. Lower depreciation expense resulting from the third quarter 2015 nuclear plant impairments also contributed.

(p)The year-to-date decrease reflected higher nuclear expenses, including regulatory compliance costs resulting from the NRC’s decision to move ANO into Column 4 of the reactor oversight process action matrix ($53 million pre-tax). Pension and OPEB and distribution reliability expenses were also higher. Other non-fuel O&M changes with offsets in net revenue in the current and year-to date periods included transmission costs allocated by MISO and energy efficiency program costs.

C: Utility Financial and Performance Measures

Appendix C-1 provides a comparative summary of Utility, Parent & Other Adjusted EPS, excluding the effects of special items and weather and normalizing tax items for the fourth quarter and full year periods. Appendix C-1 also provides Utility, Parent & Other Adjusted EPS excluding the effects of charges from resolving long outstanding regulatory matters.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(q)Reflects charges for System Agreement termination settlement agreement (fourth quarter and year-to-date 2015), the Waterford 3 replacement steam generator prudence review proceeding (fourth quarter and year-to-date 2014 and fourth quarter and year-to-date 2015) and the EMI rate case settlement (2014), accounted for on multiple income statement line items.

Appendix C-2 provides a comparative summary of Utility operational performance measures.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(r)The effects of weather are estimated using monthly heating degree days and cooling degree days from certain locations within each jurisdiction and comparing to “normal” weather based on 20 year historical data. The models used to estimate weather are updated periodically and subject to change. 

See appendix in the webcast slide presentation for information on select regulatory cases.

D: EWC Performance Measures

Appendix D-1 provides a comparative summary of EWC operational performance measures.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(s)Fourth quarter and year-to-date 2015 exclude VY (605 MW) that was shut down in December 2014 and RISEC (583 MW) that was sold in December 2015.

(t)Excluding VY, $54.26/MWh and $60.65/MWh in fourth quarter and year-to-date 2014 periods, respectively.

(u)Excluding VY, $25.45/MWh and $24.80/MWh in fourth quarter and year-to-date 2014 periods, respectively.

(v)Excluding VY, $53.79/MWh and $60.07/MWh in fourth quarter and year-to-date 2014 periods, respectively.

See appendix in the webcast slide presentation for EWC hedging and price disclosures.

E: Financial Performance Measures

Appendix E provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Financial performance measures in this table include those calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures. 

As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of net income, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational net income, which excludes the impact of special items.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

F: Definitions, Abbreviations and Acronyms

Appendix F-1 provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures which are referenced in the quarterly and full year materials. Non-GAAP measures are included in these materials to provide metrics that remove the effect of financial events that are not routine from commonly used financial metrics.

Appendix F-1: Definitions

Utility Operational Performance Measures

GWh billedTotal number of GWh billed to all retail and wholesale customers 

Net revenueOperating revenue less fuel, fuel related expenses and gas purchased for resale, purchased power and other regulatory charges (credits) - net

Non-fuel O&MOperation and maintenance expenses excluding fuel, fuel-related expenses and gas purchased for resale and purchased power

Non-fuel O&M per MWhNon-fuel O&M per MWh of billed sales

Number of retail customersNumber of customers at end of period

EWC Operational Performance Measures

As-reported average total revenue per MWhAs-reported revenue per MWh billed, excluding revenue from investments in wind generation accounted for under the equity method of accounting

Adjusted average total revenue per MWhAs-reported average total revenue per MWh, excluding revenue from the amortization of the Palisades below-market PPA

Average revenue under contract per kW per month (applies to capacity contracts only)Revenue on a per unit basis at which capacity is expected to be sold to third parties, given existing contract prices and/or auction awards

Average revenue per MWh on contracted volumesRevenue on a per unit basis at which generation output reflected in contracts is expected to be sold to third parties (including offsetting positions) at the minimum contract prices and at forward market prices at a point in time, given existing contract or option exercise prices based on expected dispatch or capacity, excluding the revenue associated with the amortization of the below-market PPA for Palisades; revenue will fluctuate due to factors including market price changes affecting revenue received on puts, collars and call options, positive or negative basis differentials, option premiums and market prices at the time of option expiration, costs to convert firm LD to unit-contingent and other risk management costs

Bundled capacity and energy contracts A contract for the sale of installed capacity and related energy, priced per MWh sold

Capacity contractsA contract for the sale of the installed capacity product in regional markets managed by ISO-NE, the NYISO and MISO

Capacity factorNormalized percentage of the period that the nuclear plants generate power

Expected sold and market total revenue per MWhTotal energy and capacity revenue on a per unit basis at which total planned generation output and capacity is expected to be sold given contract terms and market prices at a point in time, including estimates for market price changes affecting revenue received on puts, collars and call options, positive or negative basis differentials, option premiums and market prices at time of option expiration, costs to convert Firm LD to unit-contingent and other risk management costs, divided by total planned MWh of generation, excluding the revenue associated with the amortization of the Palisades below-market PPA

Firm LD Transaction that requires receipt or delivery of energy at a specified delivery point (usually at a market hub not associated with a specific asset) or settles financially on notional quantities; if a party fails to deliver or receive energy, defaulting party must compensate the other party as specified in the contract; a portion of which may be capped through the use of risk management products

GWh billedTotal number of GWh billed to customers, excluding investments in wind generation accounted for under the equity method of accounting and financially-settled instruments

Appendix F-1: Definitions

EWC Operational Performance Measures (continued)

Net revenueOperating revenue less fuel, fuel related expenses and purchased power

Non-fuel O&MOperation and maintenance expenses excluding fuel, fuel-related expenses and gas purchased for resale, purchased power and investments in wind generation accounted for under the equity method of accounting

Non-fuel O&M per MWhNon-fuel O&M per MWh billed

Offsetting positionsTransactions for the purchase of energy, generally to offset a Firm LD transaction

Owned capacity (MW)Installed capacity owned and operated by EWC, including investments in wind generation accounted for under the equity method of accounting; VY (nuclear) was retired on Dec. 29, 2014, and RISEC (non-nuclear) was sold on Dec. 17, 2015

Percent of capacity sold forwardPercent of planned qualified capacity sold to mitigate price uncertainty under physical or financial transactions

Percent of planned generation under contractPercent of planned generation output sold or purchased forward under contracts, forward physical contracts, forward financial contracts or options that mitigate price uncertainty that may or may not require regulatory approval or approval of transmission rights or other conditions precedent; positions that are no longer classified as hedges are netted in the planned generation under contract

Planned net MW in operationAmount of installed capacity to generate power and/or sell capacity, assuming shutdown of Pilgrim June 1, 2019 and FitzPatrick planned for Jan. 27, 2017

Planned TWh of generationAmount of output expected to be generated by EWC resources considering plant operating characteristics and outage schedules, assuming shutdown of Pilgrim June 1, 2019 and FitzPatrick planned for Jan. 27, 2017, uninterrupted normal plant operation and timely renewal of plant operating licenses at IPEC

Production cost per MWhFuel and non-fuel O&M expenses according to accounting standards that directly relate to the production of electricity per MWh (based on net generation), excluding special items

Refueling outage daysNumber of days lost for scheduled refueling outage during the period

Unit-contingentTransaction under which power is supplied from a specific generation asset; if the asset is on operational outage, seller is generally not liable to buyer for any damages, unless the contract specifies certain conditions such as an availability guarantee

Financial Measures - GAAP

Book value per shareEnd of period common equity divided by end of period shares outstanding

Debt of joint ventures - Entergy’s share Entergy’s share of debt issued by business joint ventures at EWC

Debt to capital ratioTotal debt divided by total capitalization

Leases - Entergy’s shareOperating leases held by subsidiaries capitalized at implicit interest rate

Revolver capacity Amount of undrawn capacity remaining on corporate and subsidiary revolvers, including Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee

ROIC - as-reported 12-months rolling net income attributable to Entergy Corporation or Subsidiary (Net Income) adjusted for preferred dividends and tax-effected interest expense divided by average invested capital

ROE - as-reported12-months rolling Net Income divided by average common equity

Securitization debtDebt associated with securitization bonds issued to recover storm costs from hurricanes Rita, Ike and Gustav at ETI and Hurricane Isaac at ENOI; the 2009 ice storm at EAI and investment recovery of costs associated with the cancelled Little Gypsy repowering project at ELL 

Total debt Sum of short-term and long-term debt, notes payable and commercial paper and capital leases on the balance sheet

Appendix F-1: Definitions

Financial Measures - Non-GAAP

Adjusted EBITDAEarnings before interest, depreciation and amortization and income taxes excluding decommissioning expense and other than temporary impairment losses on decommissioning trust fund assets; for Entergy consolidated, also excludes AFUDC-equity funds and subtracts securitization proceeds

Adjusted EPSAs-reported earnings per share excluding special items and weather and normalizing for income tax

Debt to capital ratio, excluding securitization debtTotal debt divided by total capitalization, excluding securitization debt

Debt to EBITDAEnd of period total debt excluding securitization debt divided by 12-months rolling operational adjusted EBITDA

FFONet cash flow provided by operations less AFUDC-borrowed funds, working capital items in operating cash flow (receivables, fuel inventory, accounts payable, prepaid taxes and taxes accrued, interest accrued and other working capital accounts) and securitization regulatory charge

FFO to debt12-months rolling operational FFO as a percentage of end of period total debt excluding securitization debt

Gross liquidity Sum of cash and revolver capacity

Operational adjusted EBITDAAdjusted EBITDA excluding effects of special items

Operational earningsAs-reported Net Income adjusted to exclude the impact of special items

Operational FFOFFO excluding effects of special items

Parent debt to total debtEnd of period Entergy Corporation debt, including amounts drawn on credit revolver and commercial paper facilities, as a percent of total debt excluding securitization debt

Net debt to net capital ratio, excluding securitization debtTotal debt less cash and cash equivalents divided by total capitalization less cash and cash equivalents, excluding securitization debt

ROIC - operational12-months rolling operational Net Income adjusted for preferred dividends and tax-effected interest expense divided by average invested capital

ROE - operational12-months rolling operational Net Income divided by average common equity

Appendix F-2 explains abbreviations and acronyms used in the quarterly earnings materials.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

G: GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations

Appendix G-1, Appendix G-2 and Appendix G-3 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Totals may not foot due to rounding

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Totals may not foot due to rounding

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Totals may not foot due to rounding

Financial Statements

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]