Exhibit   

Patterson Companies Reports Fiscal 2016 Third Quarter Operating Results

•Sales increased to $1.4 billion, up 47.8 percent on a constant currency basis, including the impact of sales from recently acquired Animal Health International, Inc.

•Adjusted EPS from continuing operations1 totaled $0.68, a 38.7 percent increase over prior year.

•Dental segment sales rose 5.9 percent on a constant currency basis.

•Animal Health segment sales increased 123.9 percent on a constant currency basis, with $406.6 million in sales attributed to the acquisition of Animal Health International, Inc.

•Company narrows adjusted earnings guidance for fiscal 2016 to $2.42 to $2.48 per diluted share.

St. Paul, Minn. — February 25, 2016 — Patterson Companies, Inc. (Nasdaq: PDCO) today reported consolidated sales of $1.4 billion (see attached Sales Summary for further details) in its fiscal third quarter ended January 30, 2016, up 46 percent over the same period last year. Sales in this fiscal 2016 period include results from the recent Animal Health International, Inc. acquisition.

Adjusted net income from continuing operations1, which reflects adjustments to exclude certain non-recurring and deal amortization costs, was $65.1 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2016, a 35 percent gain over $48.4 million in the same quarter last year. Adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations1 was $0.68 in the 2016 third quarter, a 39 percent year-over-year increase. Reported net income from continuing operations was $57.2 million, or $0.60 per diluted share, compared to $46.4 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, in last year’s fiscal third quarter. 

“We are pleased with our execution in the third quarter from both a sales and operations perspective. Patterson Companies generated solid organic revenue growth and expanded operating margins in both our Dental and Animal Health businesses. We also made significant additional integration progress in our Animal Health segment,” said Scott Anderson, chairman, president and chief executive officer. “Our sales and support teams are focusing diligently on serving our customers and taking full advantage of our leadership in technology, value-added services and broadened product offerings.”

Patterson Dental

Sales for Patterson Dental, which represent approximately 46 percent of total sales, improved to $637.7 million, up 5.9 percent on a constant currency basis from the same quarter last year. On that same basis, year-over-year sales by category were as follows:

•Consumable dental supplies improved 5.1 percent

•Equipment sales rose 6.8 percent, reflecting strength in both technology and core equipment

•Other services and products, primarily composed of technical service, parts and labor, software support services and office supplies, climbed 7.7 percent

Anderson said, “A highlight for us was the solid growth in the consumables category this quarter, which stemmed from increased patient utilization. We continue to see stable to steadily improving dynamics in the 

North American dental market and believe we are increasingly well-positioned to capitalize on this trend – given our technology leadership and support infrastructure – across the full spectrum of dental customers.”

Patterson Animal Health 

Sales for Patterson Animal Health, which comprise approximately 54 percent of the company’s total sales, more than doubled to $749.7 million. Sales from Animal Health International, Inc. added $406.6 million to the Animal Health segment during the quarter. Excluding the contribution from Animal Health International, Inc. and accounting for normalized changes in veterinary diagnostic manufacturer relationships, segment sales improved 6.2 percent on a constant currency basis, led by an 11.3 percent increase in the U.S.

Anderson continued, “Overall, our Animal Health business posted solid results for the quarter, driven by a particularly strong performance in the U.S. companion animal business. We remain confident in the pace of our integration progress with Animal Health International, Inc., the synergies we are gaining and the competitive position of our market-leading platform.”

Discontinued Operations 

On August 28, 2015, Patterson Companies completed the sale of Patterson Medical to Madison Dearborn Partners for approximately $715 million. As a result of the sale, results of Patterson Medical are classified and reported as discontinued operations in all periods beginning with the fiscal 2016 first quarter. 

Share Repurchases and Dividends

Fiscal year-to-date, Patterson repurchased approximately 4.4 million shares of its outstanding common stock, with a value of $200.0 million, leaving approximately 16 million shares for repurchase under the current authorization. The company also paid $21.6 million in cash dividends to shareholders in the third quarter and $67.0 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2016.

Year-to-Date Results1 

Consolidated sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2016 totaled $3.9 billion, a 37 percent year-over-year increase. Adjusted net income from continuing operations was $167.3 million, or $1.70 per diluted share, compared to adjusted net income from continuing operations of $132.4 million, or $1.33 per diluted share, in the year-ago period, as outlined in the Third Quarter and Nine-Month Reconciliation table1. Fiscal 2016 also includes the impact of an extra week.

Business Outlook

Anderson concluded, “With three quarters of the fiscal year completed, we are narrowing our 2016 adjusted earnings guidance range on a continuing operations basis to $2.42 to $2.48 per diluted share. We expect to achieve this growth by concentrating on the strong fundamentals in both of our businesses. In Dental, we intend to capitalize on the favorable North American market conditions. In Animal Health, as we generate synergies from the acquisition, we are focused on driving growth across both the companion and production animal platforms. We continue to create value for shareholders as we balance investing in our business, paying dividends and repurchasing shares.”

The fiscal 2016 annual financial outlook and adjusted earnings guidance:

•Assumes stable North American and international markets 

•Includes the impact of an extra week in fiscal 2016 compared to the previous year

•Excludes the impact of additional share repurchases for the remainder of the fiscal year

•Excludes transaction-related costs, integration expense, deal amortization, accelerated debt issuance costs, non-recurring IT initiative training costs and tax costs related to cash repatriation (See Third Quarter and Nine-Month Reconciliation table below)

•Excludes the discontinued operations for Medical

1Third Quarter and Nine-Month Reconciliation

The following non-GAAP table is provided to adjust reported net income and earnings per share for the impact of tax affected one-time costs, current and prior deal-amortization costs and tax costs related to cash repatriation. Management believes that the adjusted net income and EPS amounts may provide a helpful representation of the company’s current quarter performance. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

*May not foot due to rounding

Third Quarter Conference Call and Replay

Patterson’s third quarter earnings conference call will start at 10 a.m. Eastern today. Investors can listen to a live webcast of the conference call at www.pattersoncompanies.com. The conference call will be archived on Patterson’s website. A replay of the third quarter conference call can be heard for one week at 888-203-1112 and by providing the Conference ID 6564113, when prompted.

About Patterson Companies, Inc. 

Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added distributor serving the dental and animal health markets. 

Dental Market 

Patterson's Dental segment provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and 

software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America. 

Animal Health Market 

Patterson's Animal Health segment is a leading distributor of products, services and technologies to both the production and companion animal health markets in North America and the U.K. 

This press release contains certain forward-looking statements, as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond Patterson's ability to control. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by words such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. It is uncertain whether any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do, what impact they will have on the results of operations and financial condition of Patterson or the price of Patterson stock. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to the other risks and important factors contained and identified in Patterson's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Reports on Form 10-K, any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement in this press release speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Except to the extent required under the federal securities laws, Patterson does not intend to update or revise the forward-looking statements.

For additional information contact:

Ann B. Gugino  

Executive Vice President & CFO 

651-686-1600 

John M. Wright 

Vice President, Investor Relations 

651-686-1364 

Source: Patterson Companies, Inc.

PATTERSON COMPANIES, INC.

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

(Unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

PATTERSON COMPANIES, INC.

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In thousands)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

PATTERSON COMPANIES, INC.

SALES SUMMARY

(Dollars in thousands)

(Unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

PATTERSON COMPANIES, INC.

SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL DATA

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

(Unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

PATTERSON COMPANIES, INC.

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In thousands)

(Unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]