sni-ex99_6.htm     

Exhibit 99 

Scripps Networks Interactive reports full year and fourth quarter 2015 financial results 

Double digit growth in full year revenues and segment profit, driven by strength in advertising and expanding international business 

Full year 2015 financial highlights: 

·  

Revenues increased 13.2 percent to $3.0 billion 

·  

Segment profit increased 11.0 percent to $1.2 billion 

·  

Adjusted segment profit increased 12.9 percent to $1.3 billion 

·  

Net income attributable to SNI increased 21.5 percent to $4.66 per diluted share 

·  

Adjusted net income attributable to SNI increases 24.7 percent to $4.94 per diluted share 

For immediate release 

Feb. 23, 2016 

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. — Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. (NYSE: SNI) today reported full-year and fourth-quarter 2015 operating results. 

The company reported an increase of more than 13 percent in annual revenues over the prior year, with segment profit up 11 percent over the same period. The performance was driven by strong advertiser demand for Scripps Networks Interactive’s brands in the United States fueling higher pricing, as well as the continued growth in the company’s international networks including Poland’s leading multi-platform media business TVN. 

The company’s portfolio of brands including HGTV and Food Network continue to deliver consistent audience growth into 2016, with all six U.S. networks increasing impressions in January compared to the same period in 2015. 

“These results exemplify the strong and consistent execution of our strategy at Scripps Networks Interactive. Our core television lifestyle networks are growing in demand by viewers and advertisers, while our international expansion continues to make a significant contribution to the overall robust health of the company, “said Kenneth W. Lowe, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. “We continue to build on the success of our powerful lifestyle media brands, and every day we are increasing the number of connections those brands make with consumers around the world. As a result, we’re well positioned to maximize the value we can generate from the audiences we deliver across multiple platforms.” 

Total Year Results 

Consolidated operating revenues in 2015 were a record $3.0 billion, an increase of 13.2 percent over the prior year. Advertising revenue was $2.1 billion, an increase of 13.6 percent over the prior  

year, primarily driven by higher demand and pricing in the U.S. market and growth in our international business. Affiliate fee revenue was $875.0 million, an increase of 9.5 percent over the prior year, primarily due to negotiated rate increases and international expansion. 

Segment profit was $1.2 billion, an increase of 11.0 percent compared with the prior year (see non-GAAP financial measures note for a definition of segment profit). This was driven by revenue growth, cost structure improvements as a result of our restructuring and early retirement program and international expansion. These improvements were partially offset by increases in programming expenses as well as TVN transaction and integration costs and expenses associated with restructuring and reorganization. Adjusted segment profit was $1.3 billion, up 12.9 percent over the prior year.(a) 

Consolidated net income attributable to Scripps Networks Interactive was $606.8 million, or  

$4.66 per diluted share, compared with $545.3 million, or $3.83 per diluted share for the prior year period. This increase was primarily due to improved operating performance and international expansion. Full year 2015 adjusted net income attributable to Scripps Networks Interactive was  

$642.0 million, or $4.94 per diluted share, a 24.7 percent increase compared with the prior year.(b) 

Fourth-quarter Results 

Consolidated operating revenues for the fourth quarter of 2015 were $851.8 million, an increase of 27.3 percent over the prior-year period. Results for the three-month period ended Dec. 31 2015 reflect advertising revenue of $596.5 million, up 31.5 percent, and affiliate fee revenue of  

$225.8 million, up 11.8 percent, over the prior-year period.  

Total segment profit was $317.9 million, an increase of 21.5 percent, compared with the prior year, reflecting the strong revenue growth, operating efficiencies as a result of the restructuring and early retirement program and international expansion. These improvements were partially offset by higher programming expense as well as TVN transaction and integration costs and expenses associated with restructuring and reorganization. Adjusted segment profit was  

$329.4 million, an increase of 19.3 percent, compared with the prior year.(c) 

Net income attributable to Scripps Networks Interactive was $164.7 million, or $1.27 per diluted share, compared with $131.8 million, or $0.96 per diluted share for the prior year period. This increase was primarily due to improved operating performance and international expansion. 

Fourth quarter adjusted net income attributable to Scripps Networks Interactive was  

$175.3 million, or $1.35 per diluted share, an increase of 32.4 percent, compared with 2014.(d) 

2 

Segment Results 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

U.S. Networks operating revenues for the fourth quarter of 2015 were $701.8 million, an increase of 8.0 percent, driven by both advertising revenue and affiliate fee growth. Total advertising revenue was $478.4 million, an increase of 7.8 percent, reflecting further strengthening of advertiser demand for our lifestyle network brands. Affiliate fee revenue was $199.6 million, an increase of 4.6 percent, primarily driven by annual negotiated rate increases, expanded distribution for DIY Network and Cooking Channel and incremental broadband distribution.  

U.S. Networks segment profit was $309.1 million, an increase of 1.1 percent. This reflects strong revenue growth and operating improvements due to the restructuring and early retirement program. These improvements were offset by an increase in program amortization related to the premiere of a record number of new programs, coupled with higher than normal program write-offs primarily related to the repositioning of the Travel Channel brand and vision under new leadership. Adjusted segment profit was $313.4 million, a decrease of 1.3 percent.(c) 

International Networks operating revenues for the fourth quarter of 2015 were $163.0 million, an increase of $135.7 million compared with the fourth quarter of last year, primarily due to the consolidation of TVN operations. 

International Networks segment profit was $36.4 million, an increase of $44.4 million, compared with a loss of $8.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2014, primarily due to the consolidation of TVN operations. 

Corporate and Other included a segment loss of $27.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared with a segment loss of $35.8 million in the prior year fourth quarter, an improvement of 23.2 percent. This improvement reflects increased operating efficiencies achieved as a result of the restructuring and early retirement program. Adjusted Corporate and Other segment loss was $23.9 million, compared with $33.5 million, a 28.5 percent improvement over the prior year fourth quarter.(c) 

(a)  

– refer to Adjusted Segment Profit – Total Year 2015 and 2014 table 

3 

(b)  

– refer to Adjusted Net Income – Total Year 2015 and Adjusted Net Income – Total Year 2014 tables  

(c)  

– refer to Adjusted Segment Profit – Q4 2015 and 2014 table 

(d)  

– refer to Adjusted Net Income – Q4 2015 and Adjusted Net Income – Q4 2014 tables 

2016 Full-year Guidance 

The company will provide full year guidance on their earnings conference call. 

Conference call 

The senior management team of Scripps Networks Interactive will discuss the company’s fourth quarter results during a telephone conference call at 10 a.m. ET today. Scripps Networks Interactive will offer a live webcast of the conference call. To access the webcast, visit www.scrippsnetworksinteractive.com and follow the Investors link at the top of the page. The webcast link can be found next to the microphone icon on the investor relations landing page. 

To access the conference call by telephone, dial (877) 209-9922 (U.S.) or (612) 332-0802 (international) approximately ten minutes before the start of the call. Callers will need the name of the call, "SNI Fourth Quarter Earnings Report," to be granted access. Callers also will be asked to provide their name and company affiliation. The media and general public are granted access to the conference call on a listen-only basis. 

A replay line will be open from 12:15 p.m. on Feb. 23 until 11:59 p.m. ET on March 8. The domestic number to access the replay is (800) 475-6701, and the international number is (320) 365-3844. The access code for both numbers is 384375. 

A replay of the conference call will also be available online. To access the audio replay, visit www.scrippsnetworksinteractive.com approximately four hours after the call, choose the Investors page, then follow the Audio Archives link at the top of the Investor Relations page. 

Forward-looking statements 

This press release contains certain forward-looking statements related to the company’s businesses that are based on management’s current expectations. Forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, trends and uncertainties, including changes in advertising demand and other economic conditions that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. The company’s written policy on forward-looking statements can be found on page F-3 of its 2014 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date the statement is made. 

About Scripps Networks Interactive

Scripps Networks Interactive (NYSE: SNI) is one of the leading developers of engaging lifestyle content in the home, food and travel categories for television, the Internet and emerging platforms. The company's lifestyle media portfolio comprises popular television and Internet brands HGTV, DIY Network, Food Network, Cooking Channel, Travel Channel and Great American  

4 

Country, which collectively engage more than 190 million U.S. consumers each month. International operations include TVN, Poland’s premier multi-platform media company; UKTV, an independent commercial joint venture with BBC Worldwide; Asian Food Channel, the first pan-regional TV food network in Asia; and lifestyle channel Fine Living. The company’s global networks and websites reach millions of consumers across North and South America, Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Scripps Networks Interactive is headquartered in Knoxville, Tenn. For more information, please visit http://www.scrippsnetworksinteractive.com. 

# # # 

Contact: Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. 

Investors: Mike Gallentine, 865-560-4473, mgallentine@scrippsnetworks.com 

Media: Dylan Jones, 865-560-5068, DJones@scrippsnetworks.com, or 

Lee Hall, 865-560-3853, LHall@scrippsnetworks.com 

5 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

6 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

7 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

8 

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES 

Our Chief Operating Decision Maker evaluates the operating performance of our businesses and makes decisions about the allocation of resources to the businesses using a measure we call segment profit. Segment profit excludes interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, divested operating units, investment results and certain other items that are included in net income determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).  

Items excluded from segment profit generally result from decisions made in prior periods or from decisions made by corporate executives rather than the managers of the businesses. Depreciation and amortization charges are the result of decisions made in prior periods regarding the allocation of resources and are, therefore, excluded from this measure. Financing, tax structure and divestiture decisions are generally made by corporate executives. Excluding these items from the performance measure of our businesses enables us to evaluate operating performance based upon current economic conditions and decisions made by the managers of those businesses in the current period. 

In the fourth quarter of 2014, we modified our management reporting structure related to the operating results from our uLive business. In conjunction with this change in reporting structure, we now report the results of uLive within U.S. Networks rather than within Corporate and Other.  

As a result of the acquisition of N-Vision B.V. (“N-Vision”), the majority shareholder of TVN, the international operating segment that was previously not significant, has become significant. Therefore, the Company now has two reportable segments: U.S. Networks, previously referred to as Lifestyle Media, and International Networks.  

As a result of the above-mentioned changes, certain prior period and prior year segment results have been recast to reflect the current presentation. 

International Networks includes the lifestyle oriented channels available in the United Kingdom, Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia-Pacific and Latin America. Additionally, International Networks includes TVN.  

Corporate and Other includes the results of businesses not separately identified as reportable segments for external financial reporting purposes and will continue to be disclosed separately from the results of the U.S. Networks and International Networks segments. The Company generally does not allocate corporate employee-related overhead costs to its reportable segments, but rather classifies these expenses within Corporate and Other. However, certain corporate costs, including information technology, pension and other employee benefits and shared service functions, are allocated to our businesses. The allocations are generally amounts agreed upon by management, which may differ from amounts that would be incurred if such services were purchased separately by the businesses.  

9 

A reconciliation of segment profit to operating income determined in accordance with GAAP for each business segment is as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The table below reconciles certain non-GAAP measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures: cost of services, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, selling general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, miscellaneous, net, net income attributable to SNI and earnings per diluted share.  

10 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

11 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

12 

We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities less dividends paid to non-controlling interests and acquisitions of property and equipment. We measure free cash flow as we believe it is an important indicator for management and investors as to our liquidity, including our ability to reduce debt, make strategic investments and return capital to shareholders. A reconciliation of free cash flow is as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Since segment profit, adjusted segment profit, adjusted net income and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures, they should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. 

SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

U.S. Networks earns revenue primarily from the sale of advertising time on our national television networks and interactive platforms, affiliate fees paid by cable and television systems and telecommunication service providers and other distributors that carry our network programming and the licensing of our content to third parties and brands for consumer products, such as videos, books, kitchenware and tools. 

Supplemental information for U.S. Networks is as follows: 

13 

Operating Revenues by Network – 2015 and 2014 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

14