United States 

Securities and Exchange Commission

 Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form 8-K 

Current Report 

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the

 Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

Date of report: January 10, 2022 

(Date of Earliest Event Reported) 

REALTY INCOME CORPORATION  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

11995 El Camino Real, San Diego, California 92130 

(Address of principal executive offices) 

(858) 284-5000 

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code) 

N/A 

(former name or former address, if changed since last report) 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: 

 ¨ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

 ¨ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

 ¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))  

 ¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (17 CFR §230.405) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (17 CFR §240.12b-2). 

Emerging growth company ¨ 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨ 

 Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.  

On January 10, 2022, Realty Income Corporation (the “Company,” “our,” “us” or “we,” which terms include, unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, its consolidated subsidiaries) provided certain updates with respect to its recent property investments and capital raising, as set forth below. 

Unless as otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, for purposes of the following disclosures, (a) references to our “revolving credit facility” and similar references mean our $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, (b) the term “Merger” means our merger with VEREIT, Inc. ("VEREIT"), which closed on November 1, 2021, (c) references to our “clients” mean our tenants, (d) references to “GBP,” “Sterling” and “£” are to the lawful currency of the United Kingdom; and (e) references to “Euro” are to the lawful currency of the European Union. For purposes of determining the aggregate amount of borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility as of any specified date, borrowings denominated in GBP and Euros are translated into U.S. dollars using the applicable exchange rates as in effect from time to time. 

Acquisitions Update 

During the quarter ended December 31, 2021 and excluding properties acquired in the Merger, we invested approximately $2.6 billion in properties and properties under development or expansion. During the year ended December 31, 2021 and excluding properties acquired in the Merger, we invested approximately $6.4 billion in properties and properties under development or expansion. 

Liquidity and Capital Markets  

Equity Capital Raising 

From October 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021, we raised approximately $1.72 billion of gross proceeds from the sale of common stock at a weighted average price of $69.07 per share, primarily from sales of common stock through our “at-the-market” program, or our ATM program. 

Liquidity 

As of December 31, 2021, we had a cash and cash equivalents balance of approximately $256.3 million, inclusive of £104.2 million denominated in Sterling and €7.2 million denominated in Euro. In addition, we had $650.0 million of borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility, and $901.4 million of outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program as of December 31, 2021. 

Forward-Looking Statements 

This Current Report on Form 8-K may include “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. All statements other than statements of historical fact are “forward-looking statements” for purposes of federal and state securities laws. These forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about the industry and markets in which the Company operates and beliefs of and assumptions made by the Company's management, involve uncertainties that could significantly affect the financial condition or operating results of Realty Income. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “will,” and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. All statements that address operating performance, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future — including any statements relating to creating value for stockholders, benefits of the Merger, integrating VEREIT into the Company and potential cost savings from the Merger — are forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained and, therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. For example, these forward-looking statements could be affected by factors including, without limitation, potential liability for a failure to meet regulatory or tax-related requirements, including the maintenance of REIT status; other risks associated with the acquisition, development, expansion, leasing and management of properties; risks associated with our geographic concentration; risks associated with the industry concentration of clients; costs related to uninsured losses, condemnation, or environmental issues; changes in local, national and international financial markets, insurance rates and interest rates; general adverse economic and local real estate conditions; the inability of major tenants to continue paying their rent obligations due to bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn in their business; foreign currency exchange rates; increases in operating costs and real estate taxes; changes in dividend policy or ability to pay dividends for the Company's common stock; impairment charges; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; the impact of future pandemics on us, our business, our clients or the economy generally; uncertainties regarding whether the anticipated benefits of the Merger will be achieved and those additional risks and factors discussed in reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) by the Company. Moreover, other risks and uncertainties of which the Company is not currently aware may also affect these forward-looking statements and may cause actual results and the timing of events to differ materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking statements made in this communication are made only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or supplement any forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, new information, future events, changes in its expectations or other circumstances that exist after the date as of which the forward-looking statements were made. 

*** 

The foregoing information in this Item 7.01 shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any of the Company’s filings, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in any such filing. This Current Report on Form 8-K is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities of the Company. 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]