Exhibit 99

 VF Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2022 Results; Reaffirms Full Year Fiscal 2022 Earnings Outlook  

    Revenue from continuing operations increased 22 percent (up 22 percent in constant dollars) to $3.6 billion; excluding acquisitions, revenue increased 15 percent (up 16 percent in constant dollars);       Active segment revenue increased 25 percent (up 26 percent in constant dollars) including an 8 percent (8 percent in constant dollars) increase in Vans® brand revenue and a 17 percentage point revenue growth contribution from acquisitions; Outdoor segment revenue increased 23 percent (up 23 percent in constant dollars) including a 28 percent (27 percent in constant dollars) increase in The North Face® brand revenue; Work segment revenue increased 6 percent (up 5 percent in constant dollars) including a 4 percent (4 percent in constant dollars) increase in Dickies® brand revenue;       International revenue increased 19 percent (up 20 percent in constant dollars) including a 5 percentage point revenue growth contribution from acquisitions; Europe revenue increased 26 percent (up 28 percent in constant dollars); Greater China revenue decreased (6) percent (down (9) percent in constant dollars), including an (8) percent ((12) percent in constant dollars) decrease in Mainland China;       Direct-to-Consumer revenue increased 30 percent (up 30 percent in constant dollars) including a 13 percentage point revenue growth contribution from acquisitions; Digital revenue increased 21 percent (up 21 percent in constant dollars) versus the prior year including an 18 percentage point revenue growth contribution from acquisitions; excluding acquisitions, Digital revenue increased 61 percent versus the third quarter of fiscal 2020;       Gross margin from continuing operations increased 140 basis points to 56.1 percent; on an adjusted basis, gross margin increased 60 basis points to 56.3 percent including a 20 basis point positive impact from acquisitions;       Operating income from continuing operations on a reported basis was $678 million; on an adjusted basis, operating income from continuing operations increased 40 percent (40 percent in constant dollars) to $643 million including a $54 million contribution from acquisitions;       Earnings per share from continuing operations was $1.32; adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 45 percent (up 44 percent in constant dollars) to $1.35 including an $0.11 per share contribution from acquisitions;       Full year fiscal 2022 revenue is now expected to be approximately $11.85 billion, reflecting growth of around 28 percent, including an approximate $600 million contribution from the Supreme® brand; full year fiscal 2022 adjusted earnings per share is expected to be around $3.20, including an approximate $0.25 contribution from the Supreme® brand.     

DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 28, 2022--VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC) today reported financial results for its third quarter ended January 1, 2022. All per share amounts are presented on a diluted basis. This release refers to “reported” and “constant dollar” amounts, terms that are described under the heading “Constant Currency - Excluding the Impact of Foreign Currency.” Unless otherwise noted, “reported” and “constant dollar” amounts are the same. This release also refers to “continuing” and “discontinued” operations amounts, which are concepts described under the heading “Discontinued Operations - Occupational Workwear Business.” Unless otherwise noted, results presented are based on continuing operations. This release also refers to “adjusted” amounts, a term that is described under the heading “Adjusted Amounts - Excluding Transaction and Deal Related Activities, Costs Related to Specified Strategic Business Decisions and Tax Items.” Unless otherwise noted, “reported” and “adjusted” amounts are the same. This release also refers to amounts "excluding acquisitions" or as "adjusted organic", which exclude the contribution from the Supreme® brand.  

 "We delivered strong double-digit top and bottom line results and returned about $500 million in cash to shareholders in the third quarter, all of which has been achieved amidst continuing macro headwinds,” said Steve Rendle, VF's Chairman, President and CEO. "The broad-based momentum across our brands is testament to the resilience of our diversified portfolio model, which has enabled us to deliver a strong quarter and reaffirm our full year earnings outlook in a challenging environment. I am confident that VF remains well-positioned for continued, profitable, long-term growth.”  

 Constant Currency - Excluding the Impact of Foreign Currency  

 This release refers to “reported” amounts in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), which include translation and transactional impacts from foreign currency exchange rates. This release also refers to “constant dollar” amounts, which exclude the impact of translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. Reconciliations of GAAP measures to constant currency amounts are presented in the supplemental financial information included with this release, which identifies and quantifies all excluded items, and provides management’s view of why this information is useful to investors.  

 Discontinued Operations - Occupational Workwear Business  

 On June 28, 2021, VF completed the sale of its Occupational Workwear business. The Occupational Workwear business was comprised primarily of the following brands and businesses: Red Kap®, VF Solutions®, Bulwark®, Workrite®, Walls®, Terra®, Kodiak®, Work Authority® and Horace Small®. The business also included a license for certain Dickies® occupational workwear products that have historically been sold through the business-to-business channel. Accordingly, the company has reported the related held-for-sale assets and liabilities as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations and included the operating results and cash flows of the business in discontinued operations for all periods, through the date of sale.  

 Adjusted Amounts - Excluding Transaction and Deal Related Activities, Costs Related to Specified Strategic Business Decisions and Tax Items  

 The adjusted amounts in this release exclude transaction and deal related activities associated with the acquisition of the Supreme® brand. Total transaction and deal related activities include a decrease in the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration liability of $50 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2022 and $158 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2022, and integration costs of approximately $1 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2022 and $6 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2022.  

 The adjusted amounts in this release exclude costs related to VF's business model transformation, a transformation initiative for our Asia-Pacific regional operations and certain cost optimization activities and other charges indirectly related to the divestiture of the Occupational Workwear business. Total costs were approximately $14 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2022 and $38 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2022.  

 The adjusted amounts in this release exclude approximately $52 million net tax expense associated with certain discrete tax activities recognized during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2022.  

 Combined, the above items negatively impacted earnings per share by $0.03 during the third quarter of fiscal 2022 and positively impacted earnings per share by $0.17 during the first nine months of fiscal 2022. All adjusted amounts referenced herein exclude the effects of these amounts.  

 Reconciliations of measures calculated in accordance with GAAP to adjusted amounts are presented in the supplemental financial information included with this release, which identifies and quantifies all excluded items, and provides management’s view of why this information is useful to investors.  

 COVID-19 Outbreak Update  

 To help mitigate the spread of COVID-19 and in response to public health advisories and governmental actions and regulations, VF has modified its business practices, including the temporary closing of offices and retail stores, instituting travel bans and restrictions and implementing health and safety measures including social distancing and quarantines.  

 The majority of VF's supply chain is currently operational. Suppliers are complying with local public health advisories and governmental restrictions which has resulted in isolated product delays. COVID-19 related manufacturing capacity constraints have continued during the third quarter, though the situation has improved over time. VF expects to be back to nearly full capacity in the coming weeks. Additionally, continued port congestion, equipment availability and other logistics challenges have contributed to ongoing product delays. VF is working with its suppliers to minimize disruption and is employing expedited freight as needed. VF's distribution centers are operational in accordance with local government guidelines while maintaining enhanced health and safety protocols.  

 In North America, no stores were closed during the third quarter. Currently, all stores are open.  

 In the EMEA region, 6% of stores were closed during third quarter. Currently, only one store is closed.  

 In the APAC region, including Mainland China, nearly all stores were open at the beginning of the third quarter. No stores were closed at the end of the quarter. Currently, 1% of stores are closed.  

 VF is continuing to monitor the COVID-19 outbreak globally and will comply with guidance from government entities and public health authorities to prioritize the health and well-being of its employees, customers, trade partners and consumers. As COVID-19 uncertainty continues, VF expects ongoing disruption to its business operations.  

 Third Quarter Fiscal 2022 Income Statement Review    Revenue increased 22 percent (up 22 percent in constant dollars) to $3.6 billion. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenue increased 15 percent (up 16 percent in constant dollars) driven by the EMEA and North American regions, which experienced a negative impact from COVID-19 in the prior year period.     Gross margin increased 140 basis points to 56.1 percent, primarily driven by reduced promotional activity and offsetting incremental freight costs. On an adjusted basis, gross margin increased 60 basis points, including a 20 basis point positive impact from acquisitions, to 56.3 percent.     Operating income on a reported basis was $678 million. On an adjusted basis, operating income increased 40 percent (40 percent in constant dollars) to $643 million, including a $54 million contribution from acquisitions. Operating margin on a reported basis was 18.7 percent. Adjusted operating margin increased 230 basis points, including a 50 basis point positive impact from acquisitions, to 17.7 percent.     Earnings per share was $1.32 on a reported basis. On an adjusted basis, earnings per share increased 45 percent (up 44 percent in constant dollars) to $1.35, including an $0.11 contribution from acquisitions.   

 Balance Sheet Highlights  

 Inventories were up 20 percent compared with the same period last year. During the quarter, VF returned approximately $195 million of cash to shareholders through dividends. The company also repurchased approximately $300 million of shares and has $2.5 billion remaining under its current share repurchase authorization.  

 Full Year Fiscal 2022 Outlook  

 VF's full year outlook assumes no material deterioration to the company's current business operations as a result of COVID-19 and related governmental actions and regulations. VF's full year fiscal 2022 outlook includes the following:    Revenue is expected to be approximately $11.85 billion, reflecting growth of around 28 percent, including an approximate $600 million contribution from the Supreme® brand. By segment, revenue for Outdoor is now expected to increase between 26 percent and 28 percent versus the previous expectation of a 25 to 27 percent increase; revenue for Active is now expected to increase between 31 percent and 33 percent versus the previous expectation of a 35 to 37 percent increase; revenue for Work is still expected to increase between 19 and 21 percent.     International revenue is expected to increase between 22 percent and 24 percent. By geographic region, in the EMEA region, revenue is expected to increase between 28 percent and 30 percent. In the Asia Pacific region, revenue is expected to increase between 7 percent and 9 percent. And, in the Americas (non-U.S.) region, revenue is expected to increase between 33 percent and 35 percent.     Direct-to-consumer revenue is now expected to increase between 32 percent and 34 percent versus the previous expectation of 34 percent and 36 percent, including Digital revenue growth of greater than 15 percent versus the previous expectation of about 20 percent.     Adjusted gross margin is expected to be at least 55.0 percent, which represents an estimated increase of at least 170 basis points.     Adjusted operating margin is expected to increase at least 500 basis points to at least 13.0 percent.     Adjusted earnings per share is expected to be around $3.20, including an approximate $0.25 contribution from the Supreme® brand.     Adjusted cash flow from operations is expected to be approximately $1.0 billion.     Other full year assumptions include an effective tax rate of approximately 14 percent and capital expenditures of approximately $350 million.   

 Dividend Declared  

 VF’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share, payable on March 21, 2022, to shareholders of record on March 10, 2022. Subject to approval by its Board of Directors, VF intends to continue to pay its regularly scheduled dividend and is not currently contemplating the suspension of its dividend.  

 Supplemental Information  

 VF has made available supplemental investor information related to historical quarterly and annual revenues for the top 4 brands for fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2021. The information provided is in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). VF believes this provides investors with useful supplemental financial information regarding VF’s underlying business trends and the performance of VF’s consolidated operations. The supplemental financial information is accessible at ir.vfc.com.  

 Webcast Information  

 VF will host its third quarter fiscal 2022 conference call beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time today. The conference call will be broadcast live via the Internet, accessible at ir.vfc.com. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, an archived version will be available at the same location.  

 Presentation  

 A presentation on third quarter fiscal 2022 results will be available at ir.vfc.com beginning at approximately 7:30 a.m. Eastern Time today and will be archived at the same location.  

 About VF  

 Founded in 1899, VF Corporation is one of the world’s largest apparel, footwear and accessories companies connecting people to the lifestyles, activities and experiences they cherish most through a family of iconic outdoor, active and workwear brands including Vans®, The North Face®, Timberland® and Dickies®. Our purpose is to power movements of sustainable and active lifestyles for the betterment of people and our planet. We connect this purpose with a relentless drive to succeed to create value for all stakeholders and use our company as a force for good. For more information, please visit vfc.com.  

 Forward-looking Statements  

 Certain statements included in this release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting VF and therefore involve several risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by the fact that they use words such as “will,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “should,” and “may” and other words and terms of similar meaning or use of future dates, however, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. All statements regarding VF’s plans, objectives, projections and expectations relating to VF’s operations or financial performance, and assumptions related thereto are forward-looking statements. We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. VF undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Potential risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results of operations or financial condition of VF to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: risks arising from the widespread outbreak of an illness or any other communicable disease, or any other public health crisis, including the coronavirus (COVID-19) global pandemic; the level of consumer demand for apparel, footwear and accessories; disruption to VF’s distribution system; the financial strength of VF’s customers; fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and contracted products; disruption and volatility in the global capital and credit markets; VF’s response to changing fashion trends, evolving consumer preferences and changing patterns of consumer behavior; intense competition from online retailers and other direct-to-consumer business risks; manufacturing and product innovation; increasing pressure on margins; VF’s ability to implement its business strategy; VF’s ability to grow its international, direct-to-consumer and digital businesses; VF's ability to transform its model to be more consumer-minded, retail-centric and hyper-digital; retail industry changes and challenges; VF's ability to create and maintain an agile and efficient operating model and organizational structure; VF’s and its vendors’ ability to maintain the strength and security of information technology systems; the risk that VF’s facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to and unable to anticipate or detect data security breaches and data or financial loss; VF’s ability to properly collect, use, manage and secure business, consumer and employee data and comply with privacy and security regulations; foreign currency fluctuations; stability of VF’s and VF's vendors' manufacturing facilities and VF's ability to establish and maintain effective supply chain capabilities; continued use by VF’s suppliers of ethical business practices; VF’s ability to accurately forecast demand for products; continuity of members of VF’s management; VF's ability to recruit, develop or retain qualified employees; VF’s ability to protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights; possible goodwill and other asset impairment; maintenance by VF’s licensees and distributors of the value of VF’s brands; VF’s ability to execute acquisitions and dispositions and integrate acquisitions, including the recently acquired Supreme® brand; business resiliency in response to natural or man-made economic, political or environmental disruptions; changes in tax laws and liabilities; legal, regulatory, political and economic risks and changes to laws and regulations; adverse or unexpected weather conditions; VF's indebtedness and its ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, if needed, could prevent VF from fulfilling its financial obligations; climate change and increased focus on sustainability issues; and risks associated with the spin-off of our Jeanswear business completed on May 22, 2019, including the risk that VF will not realize all of the expected benefits of the spin-off; the risk that the spin-off will not be tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes; and the risk that there will be a loss of synergies from separating the businesses that could negatively impact the balance sheet, profit margins or earnings of VF. More information on potential factors that could affect VF’s financial results is included from time to time in VF’s public reports filed with the SEC, including VF’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Forms 8-K filed or furnished with the SEC.  

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Contacts 

 VF Corporation 

 Allegra Perry, 720-501-3524 

 Vice President, Investor Relations 

 or 

 Craig Hodges, 720-778-4116 

 Vice President, Corporate Affairs