bll_current_folio_8K_misc   

 UNITED STATES  

 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

 Washington, D.C. 20549  

 FORM 8-K  

 CURRENT REPORT  

 Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(D) of the   

 Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

 February 08, 2019  

 (Date of earliest event reported)  

        BALL CORPORATION        

        (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)         

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 10 Longs Peak Drive, P.O. Box 5000, Broomfield, CO 80021-2510  

 (Address of principal executive offices, including ZIP Code)  

 (303) 469-3131  

 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)  

 Not Applicable  

 (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)  

 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8‑K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  Ball Corporation  

 Current Report on Form 8‑K  

 Dated February 11, 2019  

   Item 8.01    Other Events.    

 On February 08, 2019, John A. Hayes, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Ball Corporation (the "Company"), adopted a stock trading plan in accordance with Rule 10b5‑1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under Rule 10b5‑1, directors, officers and other employees who are not in possession of material non-public information may adopt pre-arranged plans or contracts for the exercise and/or sale of Company securities under specified conditions and at specified times. Using 10b5‑1 plans, individuals can gradually diversify their investment portfolios, spread stock trades out over an extended period of time to reduce market impact and avoid concerns about transactions occurring at a time when they might possess material non-public information.  

 Mr. Hayes adopted a 10b5‑1 plan as part of his individual tax and financial planning strategy related to the expiration of certain stock-settled appreciation rights ("SSARs"). Specifically, his 10b5‑1 plan provides for the exercise and sale of up to a total of 207,200 SSARs scheduled to expire on January 27, 2020, pursuant to the parameters set forth in the 10b5‑1 plan. Any shares that are sold under Mr. Hayes' plan will be sold on the open market at prevailing market prices, and subject to price thresholds specified in his plan.  

 Transactions under Mr. Hayes' plan, if any, will be reported to the Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance with applicable securities laws, rules and regulations.  

 This current report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that any shares will be sold under Mr. Hayes' plan. Investors should refer to the Company's annual and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the risks and uncertainties associated with ownership of the Company's securities. Ball Corporation does not undertake to report Rule 10b5‑1 plans that may be adopted by any officers or directors in the future, or to report any modifications or termination of any publicly announced trading plan, except to the extent required by law.   

 SIGNATURE  

 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]