EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Conduent Completes Sale of Portfolio of Select Customer Care Contracts to Skyview Capital  

FLORHAM PARK, N.J., Feb.4, 2019 – Conduent Incorporated (NYSE: CNDT) today announced it has completed the sale of a portfolio of select standalone customer care contracts to Skyview Capital LLC, subject to delayed transfer of certain assets in some countries pending fulfillment of legal requirements.  

The sale was announced on Oct. 1, 2018.  

This portfolio is part of the previously announced plan to divest $1 billion in revenue associated with non-core assets. The completion of this transaction concludes that divestiture plan.  

Click to Tweet  

LinkedIn  

About Conduent  

Conduent creates digital platforms and services for businesses and governments to manage millions of interactions every day for those they serve. We are leveraging the power of cloud, mobile and IoT, combined with technologies such as automation, cognitive and blockchain to elevate every constituent interaction, driving modern digital experiences that are more efficient, helpful and satisfying.  

Conduent’s differentiated offerings touch millions of lives every day, including two-thirds of all insured patients in the U.S. and nearly nine million people who travel through toll systems daily. Whether it’s digital payments, claims processing, benefit administration, automated tolling, customer care or distributed learning – Conduent serves a majority of the Fortune 100 companies and more than 500 government entities. Learn more at www.conduent.com.  

Media Contacts:  

Sean Collins, Conduent, +1-310-497-9205, sean.collins2@conduent.com  

Investor Relations Contact:  

Alan Katz, Conduent, +1-973-526-7173, alan.katz@conduent.com  

Note: To receive RSS news feeds, visit www.news.conduent.com. For open commentary, industry perspectives and views, visit http://twitter.com/Conduent, http://www.linkedin.com/company/conduent or http://www.facebook.com/Conduent.  

Conduent is a trademark of Conduent Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries.