Exhibit   

Exhibit 99.1

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robert McGee 

 212-460-4111 

February 21, 2019   

CON EDISON REPORTS 2018 EARNINGS 

NEW YORK - Consolidated Edison, Inc. (Con Edison) (NYSE: ED) today reported 2018 net income of $1,382 million or $4.43 a share compared with $1,525 million or $4.97 a share in 2017. Adjusted earnings were $1,349 million or $4.33 a share in 2018 compared with $1,264 million or $4.12 a share in 2017. Adjusted earnings for 2018 exclude the income tax expense resulting from a re-measurement of the company's deferred tax assets and liabilities following the issuance of proposed regulations relating to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA), the effects of the net gain on the acquisition of Sempra Solar Holdings, LLC and the net mark-to-market of Con Edison Clean Energy Businesses, Inc. (the Clean Energy Businesses). Adjusted earnings for 2017 exclude the reduction in income tax expense resulting from the re-measurement of the company's deferred tax assets and liabilities upon enactment of the TCJA, the effects of the gain on the sale of a solar electric production project and the net mark-to-market of the Clean Energy Businesses.

For the fourth quarter of 2018, net income was $331 million or $1.06 a share compared with $505 million or $1.63 a share in the 2017 period. Adjusted earnings were $243 million or $0.77 a share in the 2018 period compared with $247 million or $0.80 a share in the 2017 period. Adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter of 2018 exclude the effects of the net gain on the acquisition of Sempra Solar Holdings, LLC and the net mark-to-market of the Clean Energy Businesses. Adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter of 2017 exclude the reduction in income tax expense resulting from the re-measurement of the company's deferred tax assets and liabilities upon enactment of the TCJA and the net mark-to-market effects of the Clean Energy Businesses.

“We had a strong year financially, have embraced innovation, and have incorporated cost-saving operating efficiencies,” said John McAvoy, chairman and CEO of Con Edison. “We continue to emphasize safety and operational excellence, and moved quickly to address operational challenges. We remain focused on improving the customer experience, and are leading the way to a clean, renewable energy future.”

The company expects its adjusted earnings for the year 2019 to be in the range of $4.25 to $4.45 a share. Adjusted earnings per share exclude the negative effects of hypothetical liquidation at book value accounting for tax equity investments in certain of the Clean Energy Businesses' renewable electric production projects (approximately $0.20 a share). Adjusted earnings per share also exclude the Clean Energy Businesses' net mark-to-market effects, the amount of which will not be determinable until year end. The forecast reflects capital investments of $3,627 million and operations and maintenance expenses of $3,222 million.

Con Edison plans to meet its 2019 capital requirements, including for maturing securities, through internally-generated funds and the issuance of long-term debt and common equity. The company's plans include the issuance of between $1,600 million and $2,200 million of long-term debt, mostly at the utilities, and the issuance of additional debt secured by its renewable electric production projects. The company’s plans also include the issuance of up to $500 million of common equity in addition to equity under its dividend reinvestment, employee stock purchase and long term incentive plans and the physical settlement of the estimated $425 million remaining portion of its November 2018 equity forward transaction. 

-more-

CON EDISON REPORTS 2018 EARNINGSpage 2

See Attachment A to this press release for a reconciliation of Con Edison’s reported earnings per share to adjusted earnings per share and reported net income to adjusted earnings for the three months and years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. See Attachment B for the company's consolidated income statements for 2018 and 2017. See Attachments C and D for the estimated effect of major factors resulting in variations in earnings per share and net income for the three months and year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the 2017 periods.

The company's 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K is being filed with the Securities and Exchange

Commission. A 2018 earnings release presentation will be available at www.conedison.com. (Select "For Investors" and then select "Press Releases.")

This press release contains forward-looking statements that are intended to qualify for the safe-harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations and not facts. Words such as "forecasts," "expects," "estimates," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "plans," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements reflect information available and assumptions at the time the statements are made, and speak only as of that time.  

Actual results or developments may differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements because of various factors such as those identified in reports the company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including that the company's subsidiaries are extensively regulated and are subject to penalties; its utility subsidiaries' rate plans may not provide a reasonable return; it may be adversely affected by changes to the utility subsidiaries' rate plans; the intentional misconduct of employees or contractors could adversely affect it; the failure of, or damage to, its subsidiaries' facilities could adversely affect it; a cyber-attack could adversely affect it; it is exposed to risks from the environmental consequences of its subsidiaries' operations; a disruption in the wholesale energy markets or failure by an energy supplier or customer could adversely affect it; it has substantial unfunded pension and other postretirement benefit liabilities; its ability to pay dividends or interest depends on dividends from its subsidiaries; it requires access to capital markets to satisfy funding requirements; changes to tax laws could adversely affect it; its strategies may not be effective to address changes in the external business environment; and it also faces other risks that are beyond its control. Con Edison assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements. 

This press release also contains a financial measure, adjusted earnings, that is not determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). This non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered as an alternative to net income, which is an indicator of financial performance determined in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted earnings excludes from net income certain items that the company does not consider indicative of its ongoing financial performance. Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure to facilitate the analysis of the company's financial performance as compared to its internal budgets and previous financial results. Management also uses this non-GAAP financial measure to communicate to investors and others the company's expectations regarding its future earnings and dividends on its common stock. Management believes that this non-GAAP financial measure is also useful and meaningful to investors to facilitate their analysis of the company's financial performance. 

Consolidated Edison, Inc. is one of the nation's largest investor-owned energy-delivery companies, with approximately $12 billion in annual revenues and $54 billion in assets. The company provides a wide range of energy-related products and services to its customers through the following subsidiaries: Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY), a regulated utility providing electric, gas and steam service in New York City and Westchester County, New York; Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc. (O&R), a regulated utility serving customers in a 1,300-square-mile-area in southeastern New York State and northern New Jersey; Con Edison Clean Energy Businesses, Inc., which through its subsidiaries develops, owns and operates renewable and energy infrastructure projects and provides energy-related products and services to wholesale and retail customers; and Con Edison Transmission, Inc., which through its subsidiaries invests in electric and natural gas transmission projects.

# # #

Attachment A

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

    Attachment B

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]