8-K   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C. 20549  

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT  

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)  

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 14, 2019  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

300 Renaissance Center 

Detroit, Michigan   48265-3000 

 (Address of principal executive offices)   (Zip Code)  

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code): (313) 667-1500  

Not Applicable  

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)  

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:  

   ☐  

Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.245)  

   ☐  

Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter).  

Emerging growth company ☐  

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐  

Item 1.01 Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement  

See Item 2.03, below.  

Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant  

On January 14, 2019, General Motors Company (“GM”) entered into a $3.0 billion 3-Year Revolving Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, Citibank, N.A., as syndication agent, and the other lenders named therein (the “Facility”).  

The Facility is available to GM only and only allows for borrowing in U.S. Dollars. In 18 months, the Facility is automatically and permanently reduced to $2.0 billion.  

Consistent with the terms of GM’s current revolving credit facilities, if GM fails to maintain an investment grade corporate rating from two or more of the following credit rating agencies: Fitch Ratings, Moody’s Investor Service and Standard & Poor’s, GM will be required to cause certain of its domestic subsidiaries to guarantee its obligations under the Facility.  

Interest rates on obligations under the Facility are based on prevailing annual interest rates for Eurodollar loans or an alternative base rate, both subject to an applicable margin. This applicable margin will be based on the credit rating assigned to the Facility or to senior, unsecured long-term indebtedness of GM.  

The Facility contains representations, warranties and covenants that are typical for this type of facility. These covenants include restrictions on mergers or sales of assets and secured debt borrowings, subject to exceptions and limitations. The Facility also requires that GM maintain at least $4.0 billion in global liquidity and at least $2.0 billion in U.S. liquidity.  

Some of the lenders under the Facility, and their affiliates, have various relationships with GM and its subsidiaries involving the provision of financial services, including cash management, investment banking, trust and leasing services, and foreign exchange and other derivative arrangements.  

The foregoing description does not constitute a complete summary of the Facility and is qualified by reference in its entirety to the full text of the Facility filed herewith.  

Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 †  

Portions of this exhibit have been omitted under a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and submitted separately to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]