Exhibit   

GENUINE PARTS COMPANY

NEWS RELEASE

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

GENUINE PARTS COMPANY COMPLETES

AUTOMOTIVE ACQUISITION IN GERMANY

Alliance Automotive Group Acquires German Hennig Fahrzeugteile Group 

Atlanta, Georgia, January 8, 2019 -- Genuine Parts Company (NYSE: GPC) announced today that Alliance Automotive Group (AAG), the Company’s wholly-owned automotive distribution company based in London, U.K., has completed the acquisition of German Hennig Fahrzeugteile Group, effective today. 

Hennig Fahrzeugteile Group, headquartered in Essen, North Rhine-Westphalia, is one of Germany’s leading suppliers of vehicle parts. Hennig Fahrzeugteile has 31 branches across Germany and serves more than 9,000 customers, predominantly independent workshops and retailers. The Company expects the acquired business to generate annual revenues of approximately $190 million (US$). 

Paul Donahue, Chief Executive Officer of Genuine Parts Company, stated, “The addition of Hennig Fahrzeugteile Group, a premier supplier of vehicle parts, serves to further expand our presence and scale in the German marketplace. We are pleased to welcome the Hennig Fahrzeugteile team into the AAG and GPC family.”

Forward Looking Statements

Some statements in this press release, as well as in other materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or otherwise release to the public and in materials that we make available on our website, constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Senior officers may also make verbal statements to analysts, investors, the media and others that are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements may relate, for example, to future operations, including the anticipated synergies and benefits of any acquisition, as well as prospects, strategies, financial condition, economic performance (including growth and earnings), industry conditions and demand for our products and services. The Company cautions that its forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and while we believe that our expectations for the future are reasonable in view of currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events may differ materially from those indicated as a result of various important factors. Such factors may include, among other things, changes in the European aftermarket; the Company’s ability to successfully implement its business initiatives in each of its three business segments; slowing demand for the Company’s products; changes in national and international legislation or government regulations or policies, including new import tariffs and data security policies and requirements; changes in general 

economic conditions, including unemployment, inflation (including the impact of potential tariffs) or deflation; changes in tax policies; volatile exchange rates; significant cost increases, such as rising fuel and freight expenses; labor shortages; uncertain credit markets and other macroeconomic conditions; competitive product, service and pricing pressures; the ability to maintain favorable vendor arrangements and relationships; disruptions in our vendors’ operations, including the impact of tariffs and trade considerations on their operations and output, as required to meet product demand; the Company’s ability to successfully integrate its other acquired businesses; the uncertainties and costs of litigation; disruptions caused by a failure or breach of the Company’s information systems, as well as other risks and uncertainties discussed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2017 and from time to time in the Company’s subsequent filings with the SEC.

Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements except as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our subsequent Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and other reports filed with the SEC.

About Genuine Parts Company 

Genuine Parts Company is a distributor of automotive replacement parts in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Australasia, France, the U.K., Germany and Poland. The Company also distributes industrial replacement parts and electrical and electronic materials in the U.S., Canada and Mexico through its Industrial Parts Group. S. P. Richards Company, the Business Products Group, distributes a variety of business products in the U.S. and Canada. Genuine Parts Company had 2017 revenues of $16.3 billion. Further information is available at www.genpt.com.

About Alliance Automotive Group

Alliance Automotive Group is a leading distributor of light and commercial vehicle parts to the independent aftermarket in France, Germany, the U.K., and Poland, doing business under the Groupauto France, Précisium, Partners and Gef’Auto brands in France, Groupauto UK, UAN and FPS in the UK, Alliance Automotive Group Germany in Germany and Groupauto Poland in Poland. AAG serves approximately 40,000 garages with over 100,000 different parts for repair and maintenance from a network of more than 300 company-owned stores and approximately 1,800 affiliated outlets. Further information is available at www.allianceautomotivegroup.eu.

Contacts

Carol B. Yancey, Executive Vice President and CFO - (678) 934-5044

Sidney G. Jones, Senior Vice President - Investor Relations - (678) 934-5628