EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

BED BATH & BEYOND INC. ANNOUNCES AGREEMENT TO SELL PERSONALIZATIONMALL.COM  

UNION, New Jersey, February 18, 2020 — Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (Nasdaq: BBBY) today announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement to sell its PersonalizationMall.com business to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. for $252 million, subject to certain working capital and other adjustments.  

Commenting on the transaction, Mark Tritton, Bed Bath & Beyond’s President & Chief Executive Officer, said, “This transaction is another important step towards simplifying our portfolio and deepening our focus on our core Home, Baby and Beauty businesses. By unlocking valuable capital from within our business, we can accelerate the Company’s ongoing business transformation and our efforts to re-establish Bed Bath & Beyond’s authority in the Home space.”  

Bed Bath & Beyond, together with its outside advisors, will continue to optimize the Company’s portfolio of retail concepts and owned real estate to support the transformation and enhance shareholder value.  

The closing of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including, among others, the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976.  

Following the closing of the transaction, PersonalizationMall.com will continue to provide product and personalization services to Bed Bath & Beyond and buybuy BABY. The transaction is expected to close during the Company’s fiscal 2020 first quarter.  

Advisors to Bed Bath & Beyond on this transaction included Goldman Sachs & Co LLC and Proskauer Rose LLP.  

About the Company  

Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”) is an omnichannel retailer that makes it easy for our customers to feel at home. The Company sells a wide assortment of domestics merchandise and home furnishings. The Company also provides a variety of textile products, amenities and other goods to institutional customers in the hospitality, cruise line, healthcare and other industries. Additionally, the Company is a partner in a joint venture which operates retail stores in Mexico under the name Bed Bath & Beyond.  

Forward-Looking Statements  

This press release contains forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the Company’s progress and anticipated progress towards its long-term objectives. Many of these forward-looking statements can be identified by use of words such as may, will, expect, anticipate, approximate, estimate, assume, continue, model, project, plan, goal, and similar words and phrases, although the absence of those words does not necessarily mean that statements are not forward-looking. The Company’s actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. Such factors include, without limitation: general economic conditions including the housing market, a challenging overall macroeconomic environment and related changes in the retailing environment; consumer preferences, spending habits and adoption of new technologies; demographics and other macroeconomic factors that may impact the level of spending for the types of merchandise sold by the Company; civil disturbances and terrorist acts; unusual weather patterns and natural disasters; competition from existing and potential competitors across all channels; pricing pressures; liquidity; the ability to achieve anticipated cost savings, and to not exceed anticipated costs, associated with   

 organizational changes and investments; the ability to attract and retain qualified employees in all areas of the organization; the cost of labor, merchandise and other costs and expenses; potential supply chain disruption due to trade restrictions, political instability, labor disturbances, product recalls, financial or operational instability of suppliers or carriers, and other items; the ability to find suitable locations at acceptable occupancy costs and other terms to support the Company’s plans for new stores; the ability to establish and profitably maintain the appropriate mix of digital and physical presence in the markets it serves; the ability to assess and implement technologies in support of the Company’s development of its omnichannel capabilities; uncertainty in financial markets; volatility in the price of the Company’s common stock and its effect, and the effect of other factors, on the Company’s capital allocation strategy; risks associated with the ability to achieve a successful outcome for its business concepts and to otherwise achieve its business strategies; the impact of intangible asset and other impairments; disruptions to the Company’s information technology systems including but not limited to security breaches of systems protecting consumer and employee information or other types of cybercrimes or cybersecurity attacks; reputational risk arising from challenges to the Company’s or a third party product or service supplier’s compliance with various laws, regulations or standards, including those related to labor, health, safety, privacy or the environment; reputational risk arising from third-party merchandise or service vendor performance in direct home delivery or assembly of product for customers; changes to statutory, regulatory and legal requirements, including without limitation proposed changes affecting international trade; changes to, or new, tax laws or interpretation of existing tax laws; new, or developments in existing, litigation, claims or assessments; changes to, or new, accounting standards; and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update its forward-looking statements.  

CONTACTS:  

INVESTOR CONTACT: Janet M. Barth, (908) 613-5820 OR IR@bedbath.com  

MEDIA CONTACT: Dominic Pendry, (908) 855-4202 or dominic.pendry@bedbath.com