xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?   8-K    

   BED BATH & BEYOND INC false 0000886158        0000886158   2020-02-27 2020-02-27      

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) 

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) February 27, 2020 

 BED BATH & BEYOND INC.  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

650 Liberty Avenue, Union, New Jersey 07083 

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) 

(908) 688-0888 

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code) 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: 

  ☐  

Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) 

  ☐  

Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) 

  ☐  

Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) 

  ☐  

Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c)) 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter). 

Emerging growth company ☐ 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐ 

 Item 2.05  

Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.   

On February 27, 2020, Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (the “Company”) announced a strategic restructuring program as part of its ongoing transformation. The restructuring program includes a reorganization and simplification of the Company’s field operations, significant reduction in management positions across the business, and outsourcing of several functions. As part of the program, the Company today commenced a workforce reduction impacting approximately 500 positions. The overall restructuring program is expected to reduce annual selling, general & administrative expense by approximately $85 million. In connection with the restructuring program, the Company expects to incur net pre-tax  charges of approximately $26 million in fiscal 2019, primarily for severance and related costs, all of which will be expensed in the fiscal 2019 fourth quarter.  

 Item 7.01  

Regulation FD Disclosure.   

On February 27, 2020, the Company issued a press release announcing a strategic restructuring program. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01.  

The information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is being furnished and shall not be deemed “filed” for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.  

 Item 9.01  

Financial Statements and Exhibits.   

(d) Exhibits.  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Forward-Looking Statements  

This report contains forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the Company’s progress and anticipated progress towards its long-term objectives and the potential impact of its strategic restructuring program. Many of these forward-looking statements can be identified by use of words such as may, will, expect, anticipate, approximate, estimate, assume, continue, model, project, plan, goal, and similar words and phrases, although the absence of those words does not necessarily mean that statements are not forward-looking. The Company’s actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. Such factors include, without limitation: general economic conditions including the housing market, a challenging overall macroeconomic environment and related changes in the retailing environment; consumer preferences, spending habits and adoption of new technologies; demographics and other macroeconomic factors that may impact the level of spending for the types of merchandise sold by the Company; civil disturbances and terrorist acts; unusual weather patterns and natural disasters; competition from existing and potential competitors across all channels; pricing pressures; liquidity; the ability to achieve anticipated cost savings, and to not exceed anticipated costs, associated with organizational changes and investments; the ability to attract and retain qualified employees in all areas of the organization; the cost of labor, merchandise and other costs and expenses; potential supply chain disruption due to trade restrictions, political instability, labor disturbances, product recalls, financial or operational instability of suppliers or carriers, and other items; the ability to find suitable locations at acceptable occupancy costs and other terms to support the Company’s plans for new stores; the ability to establish and profitably maintain the appropriate mix of digital and physical presence in the markets it serves; the ability to assess and implement technologies in support of the Company’s development of its omnichannel capabilities; uncertainty in financial markets; volatility in the price of the Company’s common stock and its effect, and the effect of other factors, on the Company’s capital allocation strategy; risks associated with the ability to achieve a successful outcome for its business concepts and to otherwise achieve its business strategies; the impact of intangible asset and other impairments; disruptions to the Company’s information technology systems including but not limited to security breaches of systems protecting consumer and employee information or other types of cybercrimes or cybersecurity attacks; reputational risk arising from challenges to the Company’s or a third party product or service supplier’s compliance with various laws, regulations or standards, including  

those related to labor, health, safety, privacy or the environment; reputational risk arising from third-party merchandise or service vendor performance in direct home delivery or assembly of product for customers; changes to statutory, regulatory and legal requirements, including without limitation proposed changes affecting international trade; changes to, or new, tax laws or interpretation of existing tax laws; new, or developments in existing, litigation, claims or assessments; changes to, or new, accounting standards; and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update its forward-looking statements.  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]