Exhibit 99.1

 Pitney Bowes Announces Full Year And Fourth Quarter 2019 Financial Results; 2020 Guidance  

STAMFORD, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 4, 2020--Pitney Bowes Inc. (NYSE: PBI), a global technology company that provides commerce solutions in the areas of ecommerce, shipping, mailing and financial services, today announced its financial results for the full year and fourth quarter 2019.  

 Full Year 2019:    Revenue of $3.2 billion, flat compared to prior year; an increase of 2 percent when adjusted for both the impact of currency and market exits   GAAP EPS of $1.10; Adjusted EPS of $0.68   GAAP cash from operations of $252 million; free cash flow of $169 million   

 Quarterly Results:    Revenue of $831 million, a decrease of 3 percent; a decrease of 2 percent when adjusted for both the impact of currency and market exits   GAAP EPS of $1.03; Adjusted EPS of $0.14   GAAP cash from operations of $70 million; free cash flow of $66 million   

 “2019 was another important step forward in transforming our Company,” said Marc B. Lautenbach, President and CEO, Pitney Bowes. “We delivered our third consecutive year of revenue growth on a constant currency basis. We substantially realigned our business and our product portfolio, strengthened our balance sheet, and set ourselves up to drive profitable revenue growth going forward. Importantly, over the last two years, we have reduced our debt by over $1 billion, while maintaining significant investment in the business.  

 “In 2020, Pitney Bowes enters its 100th year, a noteworthy accomplishment few can claim,” Lautenbach added. “Our transformation continues to build on our three logical core adjacencies of shipping and mail along with the financing of mission-critical assets for our clients.”  

 Ransomware Attack Update:  

 Beginning on October 12, 2019, the Company was affected by a ransomware attack that temporarily disrupted customer access to some services. The Company has seen no evidence that customer or employee data was improperly accessed.    The Company estimates fourth quarter and full year revenue was adversely impacted by approximately $18 million, EPS by approximately $0.08 per share and Free Cash Flow by approximately $29 million, primarily as a result of the business interruption and incremental costs related to this attack.   The Company has insurance and expects a portion of any profit impact, including the profit associated with any loss of revenue, to ultimately be covered by insurance. Insurance proceeds will be recorded when there is a high degree of certainty regarding the amount of insurance proceeds to be received.   

 Debt Management and Software Solutions Sale:  

 In the fourth quarter, the Company:    Replaced its existing revolving credit facility with a new five-year, $500 million revolving credit facility and secured a new five-year Term Loan A for $400 million.   Repaid the $150 million term loan due in November 2019, the balance of the $300 million term loan due in December 2020 and redeemed its $300 million notes due in September 2020.   Obtained and allocated lender commitments for a new $650 million five-year Term Loan B which will be used to prepay future near-term bond maturities.   Completed the sale of its Software Solutions business to Syncsort for approximately $700 million in cash, with the exception of its software and data business in Australia, which closed in 2020.   

 Full Year 2019 Results  

 Revenue totaled $3.2 billion, which was flat versus prior year. Revenue increased 2 percent when adjusted for both the impact of currency and the January 2019 sale of direct operations in 6 smaller European markets (market exits).  

 Commerce Services revenue grew 9 percent over prior year and 10 percent when adjusted for the impact of currency. Sending Technology Solutions (SendTech Solutions) revenue declined 9 percent and 8 percent when adjusted for the impact of currency. SendTech Solutions revenue declined 6 percent when adjusted for both the impact of currency and market exits.  

 GAAP earnings per diluted share (GAAP EPS) were $1.10. Adjusted earnings per diluted share (Adjusted EPS) were $0.68.  

 GAAP cash from operations was $252 million and free cash flow was $169 million. During the year, the Company used cash to reduce debt by $526 million, repurchase $105 million of its common shares, pay $35 million in dividends to its common shareholders and $27 million in restructuring payments.  

 Fourth Quarter 2019 Results  

 Revenue totaled $831 million, which was a decrease of 3 percent versus prior year and 2 percent when adjusted for both the impact of currency and market exits.  

 Commerce Services revenue grew 5 percent over prior year. SendTech Solutions revenue declined 11 percent from prior year and 9 percent when adjusted for both the impact of currency and market exits.  

 GAAP earnings per diluted share were $1.03. Adjusted earnings per diluted share were $0.14.  

 GAAP cash from operations during the quarter was $70 million and free cash flow was $66 million. Compared to prior year, the decline in free cash flow was driven largely by a change in working capital, the impact of the ransomware attack and lower net income. During the quarter, the Company reduced debt by $329 million, paid $9 million in dividends to its common shareholders and made $8 million in restructuring payments.  

 Earnings per share results for the fourth quarter and full year are summarized in the table below:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * The sum of the earnings per share may not equal the totals above due to rounding.  

 Business Segment Reporting  

 The Commerce Services group includes the Global Ecommerce and Presort Services segments. Global Ecommerce facilitates domestic retail and ecommerce shipping solutions, including fulfillment and returns, and global cross-border ecommerce transactions. Presort Services provides sortation services to qualify large volumes of First Class Mail, Marketing Mail and Bound and Packet Mail (Marketing Mail Flats and Bound Printed Matter) for postal workshare discounts.   

 The Sending Technology Solutions segment offers physical and digital mailing and shipping technology solutions, financing, services, supplies and other applications for small and medium businesses to help simplify and save on the sending, tracking and receiving of letters, parcels and flats.   

 The results for each segment within the group may not equal the subtotals for the group due to rounding.  

 Commerce Services  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Global Ecommerce  

 Revenue grew driven by volume growth across all platforms partially offset by business interruption related to the ransomware attack. EBIT and EBITDA margins were largely impacted by investments in market growth opportunities, including engineering, facilities and marketing, higher costs related to the ransomware attack and lower fulfillment margins. The Company estimates that revenue was adversely impacted by approximately $7 million and EBIT and EBITDA by approximately $6 million as result of the ransomware attack.  

 Presort Services  

 Revenue grew driven by investments in acquisitions for expansion along with growth in existing volumes across all mail classes partially offset by business interruption related to the ransomware attack. EBIT and EBITDA margins increased compared to prior quarter and prior year driven by lower labor and transportation costs per unit partially offset by lower revenue per piece due to the ransomware attack. The Company estimates that revenue, EBIT and EBITDA were adversely impacted by approximately $4 million as result of the ransomware attack.  

 SendTech Solutions  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Excluding $11 million related to market exits and $1 million related to the impacts of currency  

 SendTech Solutions  

 Revenue declined driven by lower equipment, financing, support services and supplies along with business interruption related to the ransomware attack partially offset by higher rentals and business services revenue. EBIT and EBITDA margins decreased versus prior year driven by lower equipment sales margins primarily due to higher tariff costs and costs related to the ransomware attack. EBIT and EBITDA margins were also impacted by the overall lower segment revenue. The Company estimates that revenue, EBIT and EBITDA were adversely impacted by approximately $8 million as result of the attack.  

 2020 Guidance   

 The Company expects for full year 2020:    Revenue, on a constant currency basis, is expected to be in the range of 1 percent decline to 1.5 percent growth when compared to 2019.   Adjusted EPS from continuing operations to be in the range of $0.60 to $0.70 and reflects double-digit EBIT dollar growth over prior year, which will be offset by an expected higher tax rate as compared to prior year.   Free cash flow to be in the range of $140 million to $170 million. Free cash flow also reflects the planned use of cash for growth in third party leasing initiatives.   

 This guidance excludes any unusual items that may occur, such as additional portfolio or restructuring actions, not specifically identified, as the Company implements plans to further streamline its operations and reduce costs. Revenue guidance is provided on a constant currency basis. Additionally, the Company does not provide GAAP EPS and GAAP cash from operations guidance due to the uncertainty of future potential restructurings, goodwill and asset write-downs, unusual tax settlements or payments, special contributions to its pension funds, acquisitions, divestitures and other potential adjustments, which could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material impact on the Company’s performance.  

 Conference Call and Webcast  

 Management of Pitney Bowes will discuss the Company’s results in a broadcast over the Internet today at 8:00 a.m. ET. Instructions for listening to the earnings results via the Web are available on the Investor Relations page of the Company’s web site at www.pitneybowes.com.  

 About Pitney Bowes  

 Pitney Bowes (NYSE:PBI) is a global technology company providing commerce solutions that power billions of transactions. Clients around the world, including 90 percent of the Fortune 500, rely on the accuracy and precision delivered by Pitney Bowes solutions, analytics, and APIs in the areas of ecommerce fulfillment, shipping and returns; cross-border ecommerce; office mailing and shipping; presort services; and financing. For nearly 100 years Pitney Bowes has been innovating and delivering technologies that remove the complexity of getting commerce transactions precisely right. For additional information visit Pitney Bowes, the Craftsmen of Commerce, at www.pitneybowes.com.  

 Use of Non-GAAP Measures  

 The Company's financial results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); however, in its disclosures the Company uses certain non-GAAP measures, such as adjusted earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), adjusted earnings per share (EPS), revenue growth on a constant currency basis and free cash flow.   

 The Company reports measures such as adjusted EBIT, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS to exclude the impact of items like discontinued operations, restructuring charges, gains, losses and costs related to acquisitions and dispositions, asset impairment charges, goodwill impairment charges and other unusual or one-time items. While these are actual Company income or expenses, they can mask underlying trends associated with its business. Such items are often inconsistent in amount and frequency and as such, the non-GAAP measures provide investors greater insight into the underlying operating trends of the business.   

 In addition, revenue growth is presented on a constant currency basis to exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates since the prior period under comparison. Constant currency is calculated by converting the current period non-U.S. dollar denominated revenue using the prior year’s exchange rate for the comparable quarter. The Company also reported revenue growth excluding the impact of currency and market exits, which excludes the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates since the prior period and the revenues associated with the recent market exits in several smaller markets. We believe that excluding the impacts of currency exchange rates and the revenues associated with the recent market exits in several smaller markets provides investors a better understanding of the underlying revenue performance. A reconciliation of reported revenue to constant currency revenue and “constant currency revenue excluding the impact of currency and market exits” can be found in the attached financial schedules.   

 The Company reports free cash flow in order to provide investors insight into the amount of cash that management could have available for other discretionary uses. Free cash flow adjusts GAAP cash from operations for cash flows of discontinued operations, capital expenditures, restructuring payments, changes in customer deposits held at the Pitney Bowes Bank, transaction costs and other special items. A reconciliation of GAAP cash from operations to free cash flow can be found in the attached financial schedules.   

 Segment EBIT is the primary measure of profitability and operational performance at the segment level. Segment EBIT is determined by deducting from segment revenue the related costs and expenses attributable to the segment. Segment EBIT excludes interest, taxes, general corporate expenses not allocated to a particular business segment, restructuring charges and goodwill and asset impairments, which are recognized on a consolidated basis. The Company has also included segment EBITDA, which further excludes depreciation and amortization expense for the segment, as an additional useful measure of segment profitability and operational performance. A reconciliation of segment EBIT and EBITDA to net income can be found in the attached financial schedules.   

 Pitney Bowes has provided a quantitative reconciliation to GAAP in supplemental schedules. This information can be found at the Company's web site www.pb.com/investorrelations.  

 This document contains “forward-looking statements” about the Company’s expected or potential future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about its future revenue and earnings guidance and other statements about future events or conditions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: declining physical mail volumes; expenses and potential impact on client relationships resulting from the October 2019 ransomware attack that affected the Company's operations; a breach of security, including a future cyber-attack or other comparable event; the continued availability and security of key information technology systems and the cost to comply with information security requirements and privacy laws; changes in, or loss of, our contractual relationships with the U.S. Postal Service or posts in other major markets; changes in postal regulations; competitive factors, including pricing pressures, technological developments and the introduction of new products and services by competitors; the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union (Brexit); our success in developing and marketing new products and services, and obtaining regulatory approvals, if required; changes in banking regulations or the loss of our Industrial Bank charter; changes in labor conditions and transportation costs; macroeconomic factors, including global and regional business conditions that adversely impact customer demand, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; changes in global political conditions and international trade policies, including the imposition or expansion of trade tariffs and other factors as more fully outlined in the Company's 2018 Form 10-K Annual Report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Pitney Bowes assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, events or developments.  

 Note: Consolidated statements of income; revenue, EBIT and EBITDA by business segment; and reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP measures for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, and consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 are attached.  

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)       The sum of the earnings per share amounts may not equal the totals due to rounding.     

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Segment EBIT excludes interest, taxes, general corporate expenses, restructuring charges, and other items that are not allocated to a particular business segment.  

 (2) Includes depreciation and amortization expense of reporting segments only, and excludes corporate depreciation and amortization expense of $5,765 and $4,998 for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $21,559 and $21,476 for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.   

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Contacts 

 Editorial - 

 Bill Hughes 

 Chief Communications Officer 

 203/351-6785 

 Financial - 

 Adam David 

 VP, Investor Relations 

 203/351-7175