Exhibit 99.1  

 Praxair Reports Full-Year and Fourth-Quarter 2017 Results  

 Full-Year 2017 Highlights   

 Sales of $11.4 billion, 9% above prior year  

 Record $3.0 billion of operating cash flow, 10% above prior year  

 Record free cash flow of $1.7 billion, 32% above prior year  

 EPS of $4.32; adjusted EPS of $5.85   

 Fourth-Quarter 2017 Highlights   

 Sales of $3.0 billion, 12% above prior-year quarter  

 Record $0.5 billion of free cash flow, 57% above prior-year quarter  

 Backlog $1.5 billion; includes project wins in the U.S. and Asia  

 EPS of $0.11; adjusted EPS of $1.52   

 Continued Progress on Merger with Linde AG   

 Regulatory filings progressing   

 Tax Reform Impact   

 Fourth-quarter tax charge of $394 million  

 Estimated future tax rate 23% - 25%   

 DANBURY, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 25, 2018--Praxair, Inc. (NYSE:PX) today reported fourth-quarter net income of $33 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.11. These results include transaction costs of $14 million after-tax related to the proposed merger with Linde AG and a net income tax charge of $394 million related to the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“Tax Reform”). The net tax charge reflects the company’s best estimate of Tax Reform and may be adjusted in future periods as required. The impact of these charges was $1.41 of diluted earnings per share. Excluding these two items, adjusted net income was $441 million and diluted earnings per share was $1.52, up 9% and 8%, respectively versus prior year.  

 Praxair’s sales in the fourth quarter were $2,953 million, 12% above the prior-year quarter. After adjusting for positive currency translation and cost pass-through, sales grew 8%, driven by price attainment and higher volumes across all geographic segments and end-markets.  

 Reported operating profit in the fourth quarter was $636 million, 6% above the prior-year quarter. Excluding transaction costs, adjusted operating profit was $653 million, 9% above prior-year quarter. Reported and adjusted operating profit margins were 21.5% and 22.1%, respectively. EBITDA margin was 32.3% and adjusted EBITDA margin was 32.9%.  

 The company generated strong fourth-quarter operating cash flow of $836 million, 28% of sales. After capital expenditures of $339 million, free cash flow was $497 million, up 57% over the prior-year quarter. The company paid $226 million in dividends and decreased net debt by $247 million, sequentially.  

 For full-year 2017, sales of $11,437 million were up 9% above prior year. Diluted earnings per share were $4.32 and on an adjusted basis, diluted earnings per share were $5.85, up 7% versus prior year.  

 Full-year operating cash flow was $3,041 million, or 27% of sales. Free cash flow, defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures, was $1,730 million. The company paid dividends of $901 million and reduced net debt by $608 million.  

 Commenting on the financial results, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Angel said, “We had a strong finish to 2017 with 8% EPS growth and record free cash flow in the fourth quarter. The Praxair team delivered on our strategy by successfully executing the project backlog, winning several new onsite projects, and operating safely and efficiently. We have enhanced our business portfolio by increasing exposure to more resilient end-markets while remaining well positioned for the industrial recovery. All of this was accomplished while making significant progress toward our merger with Linde.  

 “Looking ahead to 2018, we will maintain our focus and leverage the cyclical recovery occurring across several core geographies and end-markets,” continued Angel. “I remain confident in our ability to grow our project backlog with new contract wins, especially in Asia and the U.S. Gulf Coast. And recent tax reform should help stimulate new capital investment in the United States and thus provide additional growth opportunities in our largest market.  

 “In the second half of 2018, I look forward to the completion of the merger between Praxair and Linde, which will bring together our complementary strengths and highly talented people.”  

 For first-quarter 2018, Praxair expects diluted earnings per share in the range of $1.53 to $1.58, excluding transaction costs related to the proposed merger. The company’s effective tax rate is estimated to be in the range of 23% to 25%.  

 Following is additional detail on fourth-quarter 2017 results by segment.  

 In North America, fourth-quarter sales were $1,542 million, 9% above the prior-year quarter, excluding currency translation. Sales growth was driven primarily by stronger volumes to the downstream energy, manufacturing and electronics end-markets and higher price. Operating profit was $396 million, 10% above the prior-year quarter.  

 In Europe, fourth-quarter sales were $412 million, 17% above the prior-year quarter. Excluding currency and cost pass-through, sales grew 5% from the prior year due to higher volumes, mainly led by the metals, manufacturing and chemicals end-markets. Operating profit was $80 million, 13% above the prior-year quarter.  

 In South America, fourth-quarter sales were $370 million, 4% above the prior-year quarter, excluding currency translation. Sales growth was driven mainly by higher volumes to metals and chemicals end-markets and price attainment. Operating profit was $60 million.  

 Sales in Asia were $470 million in the quarter, up 19% from the prior year. Excluding currency and cost pass-through, sales grew 14% from the prior year, driven by higher volumes in China, Korea and India, project start-ups and 3% price attainment. Operating profit was $90 million, 15% above prior-year quarter.  

 Praxair Surface Technologies had fourth-quarter sales of $159 million, up 7% above prior-year quarter. Sales growth was driven primarily by aerospace coatings. Operating profit was $27 million.  

 Praxair, Inc. is a leading industrial gas company in North and South America and one of the largest worldwide. With market capitalization of approximately $40 billion and 2017 sales of $11 billion, the company employs over 26,000 people globally and has been named to the Dow Jones® World Sustainability Index for 15 consecutive years. Praxair produces, sells and distributes atmospheric, process and specialty gases, and high-performance surface coatings. Our products, services and technologies are making our planet more productive by bringing efficiency and environmental benefits to a wide variety of industries, including aerospace, chemicals, food and beverage, electronics, energy, healthcare, manufacturing, primary metals and many others. For more information about the company, please visit our website at www.praxair.com.  

 Adjusted amounts, EBITDA, free cash flow and after-tax return on capital are non-GAAP measures. See the attachments for a summary of non-GAAP reconciliations and calculations of non-GAAP measures.  

 Attachments: Summary Non-GAAP Reconciliations, Statements of Income, Balance Sheets, Statements of Cash Flows, Segment Information, Quarterly Financial Summary and Appendix: Non-GAAP Measures.  

 A teleconference about Praxair’s fourth-quarter results is being held this morning, January 25, 2018 at 11:00 am Eastern Time. The number is (631) 485-4849 – Conference ID: 4575769. The call is also available as a webcast live and on-demand at www.praxair.com/investors. Materials to be used in the teleconference are also available on the website.  

 Forward-looking Statements  

 This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management’s reasonable expectations and assumptions as of the date the statements are made but involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation: the expected timing and likelihood of the completion of the contemplated business combination with Linde AG, including the timing, receipt and terms and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory approvals that could reduce anticipated benefits or cause the parties to abandon the transaction; the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the business combination agreement; the ability to successfully complete the proposed business combination and the exchange offer, regulatory or other limitations imposed as a result of the proposed business combination; the success of the business following the proposed business combination; the ability to successfully integrate the Praxair and Linde businesses; the risk that the combined company may be unable to achieve expected synergies or that it may take longer or be more costly than expected to achieve those synergies; the performance of stock markets generally; developments in worldwide and national economies and other international events and circumstances; changes in foreign currencies and in interest rates; the cost and availability of electric power, natural gas and other raw materials; the ability to achieve price increases to offset cost increases; catastrophic events including natural disasters, epidemics and acts of war and terrorism; the ability to attract, hire, and retain qualified personnel; the impact of changes in financial accounting standards; the impact of changes in pension plan liabilities; the impact of tax, environmental, healthcare and other legislation and government regulation in jurisdictions in which the company operates, including the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017; the cost and outcomes of investigations, litigation and regulatory proceedings; the impact of potential unusual or non-recurring items; continued timely development and market acceptance of new products and applications; the impact of competitive products and pricing; future financial and operating performance of major customers and industries served; the impact of information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security; and the effectiveness and speed of integrating new acquisitions into the business. These risks and uncertainties may cause actual future results or circumstances to differ materially from the GAAP or adjusted projections or estimates contained in the forward-looking statements.  

 The company assumes no obligation to update or provide revisions to any forward-looking statement in response to changing circumstances. The above listed risks and uncertainties are further described in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the company’s latest Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC and in the proxy statement/prospectus included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (which Registration Statement was declared effective on August 14, 2017) filed by Linde plc with the SEC which should be reviewed carefully. Please consider the company’s forward-looking statements in light of those risks.  

 PRAXAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

SUMMARY NON-GAAP RECONCILIATIONS

(UNAUDITED)  

 The following adjusted amounts are Non-GAAP measures and are intended to supplement investors' understanding of the company's financial statements by providing measures which investors, financial analysts and management use to help evaluate the company's operating performance. Items which the company does not believe to be indicative of on-going business trends are excluded from these calculations so that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends on a consistent basis. Definitions of these Non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar definitions used by other companies and are not a substitute for similar GAAP measures. See the Non-GAAP reconciliations starting on page 10 for additional details relating to the Non-GAAP adjustments.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (a) Charges in 2017 for transaction costs primarily related to the potential Linde merger.   

  (b) On December 22, 2017 the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform). This comprehensive tax legislation significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates, implementing a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. As a result, Praxair’s fourth-quarter net income includes a net income tax charge of $394 million comprised of the following: $467 million charge for deemed repatriation of accumulated foreign earnings, $260 million charge for foreign withholding taxes related to anticipated repatriation of foreign earnings and $333 million benefit for the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities from 35 percent to the 21 percent tax rate. This represents the Company's current best estimate of the tax reform. As new information becomes available, the Company may update this estimate.   

  (c) Pension settlement charges were recorded in the third quarter of 2017 related to lump sum benefit payments made from an international pension plan and in the third quarter of 2016 related to lump sum benefit payments made from the U.S. supplemental pension plan.   

  (d) Charges in the 2016 third quarter related to the cost reduction program and other charges.   

  (e) Charge to interest expense in the 2016 first quarter related to a bond redemption.   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (a) Non-GAAP measure, see Appendix.   

  (b) 2017 includes (i) after-tax charges of $6 million ($0.02 per diluted share), $15 million ($0.05 per diluted share), $13 million ($0.05 per diluted share), and $14 million ($0.05 per diluted share) in the first, second, third, and fourth quarters, respectively for transaction costs related to the potential Linde merger, (ii) a pension settlement charge of $2 million ($1 million after-tax) in the third quarter related to lump sum benefit payments made from an international pension plan, and (iii) income tax charges, net of $394 million ($1.36 per diluted share) in the fourth quarter due to U.S. tax reform.   

  (c) 2016 includes (i) a $16 million charge to interest expense ($10 million after-tax, or $0.04 per diluted share) in the first quarter related to the redemption of the $325 million 5.20% notes due 2017, (ii) a pre-tax pension settlement charge of $4 million ($3 million after-tax, or $0.01 per diluted share) in the third quarter related to lump sum benefit payments made from the U.S. supplemental pension plan, and (iii) pre-tax charges of $96 million ($63 million after-tax and non-controlling interests, or $0.22 per diluted share) in the third quarter, primarily related to cost reduction actions.   

 PRAXAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

APPENDIX

NON-GAAP MEASURES

(Millions of dollars, except per share data)

(UNAUDITED)  

 The following Non-GAAP measures are intended to supplement investors’ understanding of the company’s financial information by providing measures which investors, financial analysts and management use to help evaluate the company’s financial leverage, return on capital and operating performance. Items which the company does not believe to be indicative of on-going business trends are excluded from these calculations so that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends on a consistent basis. Definitions of these Non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar definitions used by other companies and are not a substitute for similar GAAP measures. Adjusted amounts exclude the impacts of the 2017 transaction costs, 2017 third quarter pension settlement, 2017 fourth quarter U.S. tax reform, 2016 third quarter cost reduction program and pension settlement, 2016 first quarter bond redemption, 2015 third quarter cost reduction program and pension settlement, and 2015 second quarter cost reduction program and other charges.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 CONTACT:

Praxair Media

Lisa Esneault, 203-837-2448

lisa_esneault@praxair.com

or

Praxair Investors

Juan Pelaez, 203-837-2213

juan_pelaez@praxair.com