Exhibit   

Exhibit 99.1

Fourth Quarter 2017 Financial Highlights  

(Commentary is on a fully taxable-equivalent basis unless otherwise noted. Consistent with SEC guidance in Industry Guide 3 that contemplates the calculation of tax-exempt income on a tax equivalent basis, net interest income, net interest margin, total revenue, and efficiency ratios are provided on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, which generally assumes a 35% marginal federal tax rate and state income taxes, where applicable. We provide unadjusted amounts in the table on page 3 of this document and detailed reconciliations and additional information in Appendix A on pages 22 through 23.)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income Statement[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

◦This quarter was favorably impacted by $0.39 per share of net discrete benefits in connection with the items announced in the December 4, 2017 Form 8-K and tax reform-related items. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

◦The year-over-year increase was driven primarily by higher net interest income and slightly higher noninterest income. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Noninterest expense increased 9% sequentially and year-over-year.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1

Balance Sheet

•Average performing LHFI were stable sequentially and grew 1% year-over-year, driven primarily by growth in consumer lending.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Capital [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•During the quarter, the Company repurchased $330 million of its outstanding common stock in accordance with its 2017 Capital Plan and issued $500 million of 5.125% noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series H.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Asset Quality[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Current period Tier 1 capital and CET1 ratios are estimated as of the date of this document.

2 See Appendix A on pages 22 through 23 for non-U.S. GAAP reconciliations and additional information.

3 LHFI measured at fair value were excluded from period-end LHFI in the calculation as no allowance is recorded for loans measured at fair value.

Consolidated Financial Performance Details

(Commentary is on a fully taxable-equivalent basis unless otherwise noted)

Revenue

Total revenue was $2.3 billion for the current quarter, a decrease of $8 million compared to the prior quarter. Net interest income increased $5 million sequentially due to a higher net interest margin. Noninterest income decreased $13 million sequentially. The December 4, 2017 Form 8-K and tax reform-related items negatively impacted noninterest income by a net $7 million with the remaining $6 million of the $13 million sequential decrease driven by lower capital markets-related income, offset partially by higher commercial real estate-related income. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2016, total revenue increased $113 million, or 5%, driven by a $95 million increase in net interest income (resulting from a higher net interest margin and growth in average earning assets) and an $18 million increase in total noninterest income. 

Net Interest Income

Net interest income was $1.5 billion for the current quarter, an increase of $5 million compared to the prior quarter due to higher earning asset yields. The $95 million increase relative to the prior year was driven by higher earning asset yields and growth of $1.8 billion in average earning assets.

3

Net interest margin for the current quarter was 3.17%, compared to 3.15% in the prior quarter and 3.00% in the fourth quarter of 2016. The increase relative to the prior quarter and prior year was driven primarily by higher earning asset yields arising from higher benchmark interest rates, continued positive mix shift in the LHFI portfolio, and lower premium amortization in the securities AFS portfolio, partially offset by higher rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities.

Net interest income was $5.8 billion for 2017, a $419 million increase compared to the twelve months ended December 31, 2016. The net interest margin for the full year 2017 was 3.14%, a 14 basis point increase compared to 2016. The increases in both net interest income and net interest margin were driven by the same factors that impacted the prior year comparison discussed above. 

Noninterest Income

Noninterest income was $833 million for the current quarter, compared to $846 million for the prior quarter and $815 million for the fourth quarter of 2016. The discrete items outlined on page 1 resulted in a net $7 million negative impact to noninterest income ($107 million gain from the sale of PAC offset by $114 million of securities AFS and servicing rights losses) with the remaining $6 million of the $13 million sequential decrease driven by lower capital markets-related income, offset partially by higher commercial real estate related income. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2016, noninterest income increased $18 million driven largely by higher commercial real estate related income and wealth management-related income.

Investment banking income was $119 million for the current quarter, compared to $166 million in the prior quarter and $122 million in the prior year. The $47 million decrease compared to the sequential quarter was due to lower equity offerings and M&A advisory activity following strong investment banking performance in the prior quarter.

Trading income was $41 million for the current quarter, compared to $51 million in the prior quarter and $58 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. The sequential and year-over-year decreases were due to lower core trading revenue during the current quarter. The decrease compared to the fourth quarter of 2016 was also driven by a higher counterparty credit valuation reserve in the current quarter. 

Mortgage production income for the current quarter was $61 million, compared to $61 million for the prior quarter and $78 million for the fourth quarter of 2016. The $17 million decrease from the fourth quarter of 2016 was due to lower production volume and a lower repurchase reserve release during the current quarter. Mortgage application volume decreased 8% sequentially and 14% compared to the fourth quarter of 2016. Closed loan volume increased 2% sequentially and decreased 27% compared to the fourth quarter of 2016.

Mortgage servicing income was $43 million for the current quarter, compared to $46 million in the prior quarter and $25 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. The $3 million sequential decrease was due to the aforementioned $5 million loss on sale of servicing rights, offset partially by higher servicing fee income during the current quarter. The $18 million increase compared to the fourth quarter of 2016 was due to higher net hedge performance, lower servicing asset decay, and higher servicing fees during the current quarter. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the servicing portfolio totaled $165.5 billion and $160.2 billion, respectively, and was $165.3 billion at September 30, 2017.

Trust and investment management income was $80 million for the current quarter, compared to $79 million for the prior quarter and $73 million for the fourth quarter of 2016. The $7 million increase compared to the prior year quarter was due to an increase in trust and institutional assets under management as well as trust termination fees received during the current quarter. 

Commercial real estate related income was $62 million for the current quarter, compared to $17 million for the prior quarter and $33 million for the fourth quarter of 2016. The $45 million sequential increase was driven primarily by higher structured real estate and tax credit-related income, as well as higher production volume from the Pillar & Cohen Financial businesses ("Pillar"). The $29 million increase compared to the fourth quarter of 2016 was driven by revenue from Pillar, which the Company acquired in December 2016, in addition to higher structured real estate and tax credit-related income earned during the current quarter. 

4

Client transaction-related fees (namely service charges on deposits, other charges and fees, and card fees) were stable sequentially. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2016, client transaction-related fees increased $4 million due to higher client-related transaction activity, offset partially by the impact of the enhanced posting order process instituted during the fourth quarter of 2016.

Net securities (losses)/gains was ($109) million for the current quarter compared to no net securities (losses)/gains in both the prior quarter and prior year quarter. The current quarter losses were due to the aforementioned restructuring of the securities AFS portfolio as a result of tax reform. 

Other noninterest income was $134 million for the current quarter, compared to $25 million in the prior quarter and $29 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. The increase compared to both periods was due primarily to the $107 million pre-tax gain from the sale of PAC during the fourth quarter of 2017. 

For the year ended December 31, 2017, noninterest income was $3.4 billion, a decrease of $29 million compared to 2016 as lower mortgage-related income was offset partially by higher capital markets and commercial real estate related income. 

Noninterest Expense

Noninterest expense was $1.5 billion in the current quarter, representing increases of $129 million sequentially and $123 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2016. The December 4, 2017 Form 8-K and tax reform-related items impacted noninterest expense by a net $111 million ($50 million charitable contribution to the SunTrust Foundation, $36 million net charges related to efficiency initiatives, and $25 million discretionary 401(k) contribution and other employee benefits). Excluding these discrete items, noninterest expense was relatively stable compared to the prior quarter and prior year. 

Employee compensation and benefits expense was $803 million in the current quarter, compared to $806 million in the prior quarter and $762 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. The $41 million increase compared to the fourth quarter of 2016 was due primarily to the tax reform-related 401(k) discretionary contribution and the Pillar acquisition.

Operating (gains)/losses were $23 million in the current quarter, compared to ($34) million in the prior quarter and $23 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. The increase relative to the sequential quarter was driven by the favorable resolution of several legal matters during the prior quarter.

Outside processing and software expense was $214 million in the current quarter, compared to $203 million in the prior quarter and $209 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. The increase compared to the prior quarter was driven primarily by higher transaction volume and the timing of third party services. The increase relative to the prior year was due to a benefit recognized during the fourth quarter of 2016 resulting from a contract renegotiation with a key vendor.

Marketing and customer development expense was $104 million in the current quarter, compared to $45 million in the prior quarter and $52 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. The increase relative to both prior periods was primarily due to the $50 million tax reform-related contribution to the SunTrust Foundation to support financial well-being initiatives.

Amortization expense was $25 million in the current quarter, compared to $22 million in the prior quarter and $14 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. The increase relative to both prior periods was primarily due to an increase in amortizable community development investments. These investments generate tax credits that reduce the provision for income taxes over time. 

Other noninterest expense was $170 million in the current quarter, compared to $168 million in the prior quarter and $154 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. The increase relative to the prior year was driven primarily by the aforementioned net $36 million charge related to efficiency actions, including severance costs in connection with the voluntary early retirement program, branch and corporate real estate closure costs, and software write-downs.

5

For the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, noninterest expense was $5.8 billion compared to $5.5 billion for 2016. The $296 million increase was driven largely by the aforementioned discrete charges recognized in the fourth quarter of 2017, in addition to higher employee compensation expense (primarily related to higher revenue and the acquisition of Pillar which closed in December 2016) and higher net occupancy costs (in part due to the reduction of amortized gains from previous sale leaseback transactions). These increases were offset partially by the aforementioned favorable resolution of several legal matters in the third quarter of 2017. 

Income Taxes

For the current quarter, the Company recorded an income tax benefit of ($74) million compared to income tax provisions of $225 million for the prior quarter and $193 million for the fourth quarter of 2016. The tax provision for the current quarter includes a $303 million tax benefit for the estimated impact of the re-measurement of the Company's estimated net deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2017 due to tax reform, a $27 million discrete expense related to the increase in STM's state NOL valuation allowance, and a $12 million tax expense related to other discrete tax items. The effective tax rate for the current quarter was (11)%, compared to 29% in both the prior quarter and the fourth quarter of 2016. Excluding the impacts from actions highlighted in the December 4th 8-K and tax reform-related items (see table on page 1 for more information), the Company’s effective tax rate was 30% for the current quarter.

Balance Sheet

At December 31, 2017, the Company had total assets of $206.0 billion and total shareholders’ equity of $25.2 billion, representing 12% of total assets. Book value per common share was $47.94 and tangible book value per common share was $34.82, up 2% and 1%, respectively, compared to September 30, 2017, driven primarily by growth in retained earnings.

Loans

Average performing LHFI totaled $143.4 billion for the current quarter, relatively stable compared to the prior quarter and a 1% increase over the fourth quarter of 2016. The year-over-year growth was driven primarily by increases in consumer lending, offset partially by declines in home equity products and C&I loans.

Deposits

Average consumer and commercial deposits for the current quarter were $160.7 billion, a 1% increase over the prior quarter and a 2% increase over the fourth quarter of 2016. The sequential growth was due largely to a 6% increase in time deposits and a 4% increase in NOW account balances, offset partially by a decline in money market account balances. The year-over-year growth was driven primarily by increases in NOW and time deposit account balances, offset partially by a decline in money market account balances.

Capital and Liquidity

The Company’s estimated capital ratios were well above current regulatory requirements with the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio estimated to be 9.7% at December 31, 2017, and 9.6% on a fully phased-in basis. The ratios of average total equity to average total assets and tangible common equity to tangible assets were 12.1% and 8.2%, respectively, at December 31, 2017. The Company continues to have substantial available liquidity in the form of cash, high-quality government-backed or government-sponsored securities, and other available contingency funding sources.

The Company declared a common stock dividend of $0.40 per common share and repurchased $330 million of its outstanding common stock in the fourth quarter of 2017. The Company currently expects to repurchase approximately $660 million of additional common stock over the next two quarters in accordance with its 2017 Capital Plan. Additionally, the Company issued $500 million of 5.125% noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series H, in November 2017.

6

Asset Quality

Total nonperforming assets ("NPAs") were $741 million at December 31, 2017, down $51 million compared to the prior quarter and $178 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2016. The decrease in NPAs compared to both the prior quarter and the prior year was driven primarily by continued improvements in the energy portfolio. The ratio of NPLs to period-end LHFI was 0.47%, 0.48%, and 0.59% at December 31, 2017, September 30, 2017, and December 31, 2016, respectively. 

Net charge-offs were $107 million during the current quarter, an increase of $29 million compared to the prior quarter and a decrease of $29 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2016. The sequential increase was driven by higher net charge-offs associated with C&I and consumer loans, while the year-over-year decrease was driven by overall asset quality improvements as well as lower energy-related net charge-offs. The ratio of annualized net charge-offs to total average LHFI was 0.29% during the current quarter, compared to 0.21% during the prior quarter and 0.38% during the fourth quarter of 2016. The provision for credit losses was $79 million in the current quarter, a sequential decrease of $41 million due primarily to the prior quarter reserve build related to hurricanes, and a decrease of $22 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2016 due to lower net charge-offs. 

At December 31, 2017, the ALLL was $1.7 billion, which represented 1.21% of period-end loans, a 2 basis point decline relative to September 30, 2017. 

Early stage delinquencies increased 9 basis points from the prior quarter to 0.80% at December 31, 2017. Excluding government-guaranteed loans which account for 0.48%, early stage delinquencies were 0.32%, up 3 basis points compared to the prior quarter and up 5 basis points from a year ago, primarily resulting from impacts associated with the recent hurricanes.

7

OTHER INFORMATION

About SunTrust Banks, Inc.

SunTrust Banks, Inc. is a purpose-driven company dedicated to Lighting the Way to Financial Well-Being for the people, businesses, and communities it serves. Headquartered in Atlanta, the Company has two business segments: Consumer and Wholesale. Its flagship subsidiary, SunTrust Bank, operates an extensive branch and ATM network throughout the high-growth Southeast and Mid-Atlantic states, along with 24-hour digital access. Certain business lines serve consumer, commercial, corporate, and institutional clients nationally. As of December 31, 2017, SunTrust had total assets of $206 billion and total deposits of $161 billion. The Company provides deposit, credit, trust, investment, mortgage, asset management, securities brokerage, and capital market services. SunTrust leads onUp, a national movement inspiring Americans to build financial confidence. Join the movement at onUp.com.

Business Segment Results

The Company has included its business segment financial tables as part of this document. Revenue and income amounts labeled "FTE" in the business segment tables are reported on a fully taxable-equivalent basis. In the second quarter of 2017, the Company realigned its business segment structure from three segments to two segments in conjunction with the Company-wide organizational changes that were announced during the first quarter of 2017. Specifically, the Company retained the previous composition of the Wholesale Banking segment and changed the basis of presentation of the Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management segment and Mortgage Banking segment such that those segments were combined into a single Consumer segment. In conjunction with this business segment structure realignment, the Company made certain adjustments to its internal funds transfer pricing methodology. Information for periods prior to the second quarter of 2017 was revised to conform to the new business segment structure and the updated internal funds transfer pricing methodology. 

For the business segments, net interest income is computed using matched-maturity funds transfer pricing and noninterest income includes federal and state tax credits that are grossed-up on a pre-tax equivalent basis. Further, provision/(benefit) for credit losses represents net charge-offs by segment combined with an allocation to the segments of the provision/(benefit) attributable to each segment's quarterly change in the allowance for loan and lease losses ("ALLL") and unfunded commitments reserve balances. SunTrust also reports results for Corporate Other, which includes the Treasury department as well as the residual expense associated with operational and support expense allocations. The Total Corporate Other results presented in this document also include Reconciling Items, which are comprised of differences created between internal management accounting practices and U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") and certain matched-maturity funds transfer pricing credits and charges. A detailed discussion of the business segment results will be included in the Company’s forthcoming Form 10-K.

Corresponding Financial Tables and Information

Investors are encouraged to review the foregoing summary and discussion of SunTrust’s earnings and financial condition in conjunction with the detailed financial tables and information which SunTrust has also published today and SunTrust’s forthcoming Form 10-K. Detailed financial tables and other information are also available at investors.suntrust.com. This information is also included in a current report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC today.

Conference Call

SunTrust management hosted a conference call on January 19, 2018, at 8:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) to discuss the earnings results and business trends. Individuals were able to call in beginning at 7:15 a.m. (Eastern Time) by dialing 1-877-209-9920 (Passcode: SunTrust). Individuals calling from outside the United States should dial 1-612-332-1210 (Passcode: SunTrust). A replay of the call was available approximately one hour after the call ended on January 19, 2018, and remains available until February 19, 2018, by dialing 1-800-475-6701 (domestic) or 1-320-365-3844 (international) (Passcode: 438631). Alternatively, individuals were able to listen to the live webcast of the presentation by visiting the SunTrust investor relations website at investors.suntrust.com. Beginning the afternoon of January 26, 2018, individuals may access an archived version of the webcast in the “Events & Presentations” section of the SunTrust investor relations website. This webcast will be archived and available for one year.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

This document includes non-GAAP financial measures to describe SunTrust’s performance. Additional information and reconciliations of those measures to GAAP measures are provided in the appendix to this document beginning at page 22. 

8

In this document, consistent with SEC Industry Guide 3, the Company presents total revenue, net interest income, net interest margin, and efficiency ratios on a fully taxable equivalent (“FTE”) basis, and ratios on an annualized basis. The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of net interest income from certain loans and investments using a federal tax rate of 35% and state income taxes where applicable to increase tax-exempt interest income to a taxable-equivalent basis. The Company believes this measure to be the preferred industry measurement of net interest income and it enhances comparability of net interest income arising from taxable and tax-exempt sources. Total revenue-FTE equals net interest income-FTE plus noninterest income. 

The Company presents the following additional non-GAAP measures because many investors find them useful. Specifically:

•The Company presents certain capital information on a tangible basis, including Tangible equity, Tangible common equity, the ratio of Tangible equity to tangible assets, the ratio of Tangible common equity to tangible assets, Tangible book value per share, and the Return on tangible common shareholders’ equity, which removes the after-tax impact of purchase accounting intangible assets from shareholders' equity and removes related intangible asset amortization from Net income available to common shareholders. The Company believes these measures are useful to investors because, by removing the amount of intangible assets that result from merger and acquisition activity and amortization expense (the level of which may vary from company to company), it allows investors to more easily compare the Company’s capital position and return on average tangible common shareholders' equity to other companies in the industry who present similar measures. The Company also believes that removing these items provides a more relevant measure of the return on the Company's common shareholders' equity. These measures are utilized by management to assess capital adequacy and profitability of the Company.

•Similarly, the Company presents Efficiency ratio-FTE, Tangible efficiency ratio-FTE, and Adjusted tangible efficiency ratio-FTE. The efficiency ratio is computed by dividing Noninterest expense by Total revenue. Efficiency ratio-FTE is computed by dividing Noninterest expense by Total revenue-FTE. Tangible efficiency ratio-FTE excludes the amortization related to intangible assets and certain tax credits. The Company believes this measure is useful to investors because, by removing the impact of amortization (the level of which may vary from company to company), it allows investors to more easily compare the Company’s efficiency to other companies in the industry. Adjusted tangible efficiency ratio-FTE removes the pre-tax impact of Form 8-K items announced on December 4, 2017 and the impacts of tax reform-related items from the calculation of Tangible efficiency ratio-FTE. The Company believes this measure is useful to investors because it is more reflective of normalized operations as it reflects results that are primarily client relationship and client transaction driven. These measures are utilized by management to assess the efficiency of the Company and its lines of business.

•The Company presents the Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio, on a fully phased-in basis. The fully phased-in ratio considers a 250% risk-weighting for MSRs and deduction from capital of certain carryforward DTAs, the overfunded pension asset, and other intangible assets. The Company believes this measure is useful to investors who wish to understand the Company's current compliance with future regulatory requirements.

Important Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements

This document contains forward-looking statements. Statements regarding potential future share repurchases and the provision for income taxes are forward-looking statements. Also, any statement that does not describe historical or current facts is a forward-looking statement. These statements often include the words “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “forecast,” “goals,” “targets,” “initiatives,” “opportunity,” “focus,” “potentially,” “probably,” “projects,” “outlook,” or similar expressions or future conditional verbs such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,” and “could.” Forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of management and on information currently available to management. Our statements speak as of the date hereof, and we do not assume any obligation to update these statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those contained in such statements in light of new information or future events.

Forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Investors are cautioned against placing undue reliance on such statements. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements. Future dividends, and the amount of any such dividend, must be declared by our board of directors in the future in their discretion. Also, future share repurchases and the timing of any such repurchase are subject to market conditions and management's discretion. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 and in other periodic reports that we file with the SEC.

9

SunTrust Banks, Inc. and Subsidiaries

FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 See Appendix A for additional information and reconcilements of non-U.S. GAAP performance measures.

2 Current period capital ratios are estimated as of the document date.

10

SunTrust Banks, Inc. and Subsidiaries

FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, continued

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 See Appendix A for additional information and reconcilements of non-U.S. GAAP performance measures.

2 Current period capital ratios are estimated as of the document date.

11

SunTrust Banks, Inc. and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Beginning January 1, 2017, the Company began presenting income related to the Company's Pillar & Cohen Financial, Community Capital, and Structured Real Estate businesses as a separate line item on the Consolidated Statements of Income titled Commercial real estate related income. For periods prior to January 1, 2017, these amounts were previously presented in Other noninterest income and have been reclassified to Commercial real estate related income for comparability. 

2 See Appendix A for additional information and reconcilements of non-U.S. GAAP measures to the related U.S.GAAP measures.

12

SunTrust Banks, Inc. and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME, continued

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1 Beginning January 1, 2017, the Company began presenting income related to the Company's Pillar & Cohen Financial, Community Capital, and Structured Real Estate businesses as a separate line item on the Consolidated Statements of Income titled Commercial real estate related income. For periods prior to January 1, 2017, these amounts were previously presented in Other noninterest income and have been reclassified to Commercial real estate related income for comparability.

2 See Appendix A for additional information and reconcilements of non-U.S. GAAP measures to the related U.S.GAAP measures.

13

SunTrust Banks, Inc. and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Includes earning assets of $182,710 and $184,610 at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

14

SunTrust Banks, Inc. and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS, continued

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Includes earning assets of $182,710, $185,071, and $184,610 at December 31, 2017, September 30, 2017, and December 31, 2016, respectively.

15

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Interest income includes loan fees of $42 million and $45 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.

2 See Appendix A for additional information and reconcilements of non-U.S. GAAP performance measures. Approximately 95% of the total FTE adjustment for both the three months ended December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017 was attributed to C&I loans.

3 Net interest margin is calculated by dividing annualized Net interest income by average Total earning assets.

16

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3 Net interest margin is calculated by dividing annualized Net interest income by average Total earning assets.

17

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Interest income includes loan fees of $177 million and $165 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

2 See Appendix A for additional information and reconcilements of non-U.S. GAAP performance measures. Approximately 95% of the total FTE adjustment for both the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was attributed to C&I loans.

3 Net interest margin is calculated by dividing annualized Net interest income by average Total earning assets.

18

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Nonaccruing restructured loans are included in total nonaccrual/NPLs.

2 This ratio is computed using the ALLL.

3 Loans measured at fair value were excluded from the calculation as no allowance is recorded for loans measured at fair value. The Company believes that this presentation more appropriately reflects the relationship between the ALLL and loans that attract an allowance.

19

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Nonaccruing restructured loans are included in total nonaccrual/NPLs.

2 This ratio is computed using the ALLL.

3 Loans measured at fair value were excluded from the calculation as no allowance is recorded for loans measured at fair value. The Company believes that this presentation more appropriately reflects the relationship between the ALLL and loans that attract an allowance.

20

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Primarily reflects changes in discount rates and prepayment speed assumptions, due to changes in interest rates.

2 Represents changes due to the collection of expected cash flows, net of accretion, due to the passage of time.

3 Represents measurement period adjustment on other intangible assets previously acquired in Pillar/Cohen acquisition.

21

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Certain amounts in this schedule are presented net of applicable income taxes, calculated based on each subsidiary’s federal and state tax rates and are adjusted for any permanent differences.

2 The Company presents Net interest income-FTE, Total revenue-FTE, Net interest margin-FTE, Efficiency ratio-FTE, Tangible efficiency ratio-FTE, and Adjusted tangible efficiency ratio-FTE on a fully taxable-equivalent (“FTE”) basis. The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of Net interest income from certain loans and investments using a federal tax rate of 35% and state income taxes where applicable to increase tax-exempt interest income to a taxable-equivalent basis. The Company believes this measure to be the preferred industry measurement of Net interest income and it enhances comparability of Net interest income arising from taxable and tax-exempt sources. Total revenue-FTE equals Net interest income-FTE plus Noninterest income.

3 The Company presents Return on average tangible common shareholders' equity, which removes the after-tax impact of purchase accounting intangible assets from average common shareholders' equity and removes related intangible asset amortization from Net income available to common shareholders. The Company believes this measure is useful to investors because, by removing the amount of intangible assets and related pre-tax amortization expense (the level of which may vary from company to company), it allows investors to more easily compare the Company’s return on average common shareholders' equity to other companies in the industry. The Company also believes that removing these items provides a more relevant measure of the return on the Company's common shareholders' equity. This measure is utilized by management to assess the profitability of the Company.

4 Efficiency ratio is computed by dividing Noninterest expense by Total revenue. Efficiency ratio-FTE is computed by dividing Noninterest expense by Total revenue-FTE.

5 The Company presents Tangible efficiency ratio-FTE and Adjusted tangible efficiency ratio-FTE, which remove the amortization related to intangible assets and certain tax credits from the calculation of Efficiency ratio-FTE. The Company believes these measures are useful to investors because, by removing the impact of amortization (the level of which may vary from company to company), it allows investors to more easily compare the Company’s efficiency to other companies in the industry. These measures are utilized by management to assess the efficiency of the Company and its lines of business.

6 The Company presents Adjusted tangible efficiency ratio-FTE, which removes the pre-tax impact of Form 8-K and other tax reform-related items from the calculation of Tangible efficiency ratio-FTE. The Company believes this measure is useful to investors because it is more reflective of normalized operations as it reflects results that are primarily client relationship and client transaction driven. Removing these items also allows investors to more easily compare the Company's tangible efficiency to other companies in the industry that may not have had similar items impacting their results. Additional detail on certain of these items can be found in the Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 4, 2017 and on page 1 of this document.

7 Current period Basel III capital ratios are estimated as of the document date. Fully phased-in ratios consider a 250% risk-weighting for MSRs and deduction from capital of certain carryforward DTAs, the overfunded pension asset, and other intangible assets. The Company believes these measures may be useful to investors who wish to understand the Company's current compliance with future regulatory requirements.

22

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Certain amounts in this schedule are presented net of applicable income taxes, calculated based on each subsidiary’s federal and state tax rates and are adjusted for any permanent differences.

2 The Company presents certain capital information on a tangible basis, including Tangible equity, Tangible common equity, the ratio of Tangible equity to tangible assets, and the ratio of Tangible common equity to tangible assets, which remove the after-tax impact of purchase accounting intangible assets from shareholders' equity. The Company believes these measures are useful to investors because, by removing the amount of intangible assets that result from merger and acquisition activity (the level of which may vary from company to company), it allows investors to more easily compare the Company’s capital adequacy to other companies in the industry. These measures are used by management to analyze capital adequacy.

3 The Company presents Tangible book value per common share, which excludes the after-tax impact of purchase accounting intangible assets and also excludes Noncontrolling interest and Preferred stock from shareholders' equity. The Company believes this measure is useful to investors because, by removing the amount of intangible assets, noncontrolling interest, and preferred stock (the levels of which may vary from company to company), it allows investors to more easily compare the Company’s book value of common stock to other companies in the industry.

23

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Beginning in the second quarter of 2017, the Company realigned its business segment structure from three segments to two segments based on, among other things, the manner in which financial information is evaluated by management and in conjunction with Company-wide organizational changes that were announced during the first quarter of 2017. Specifically, the Company retained the previous composition of the Wholesale Banking segment and changed the basis of presentation of the Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management segment and Mortgage Banking segment such that those segments were combined into a single Consumer segment. Accordingly, prior period information has been revised to conform to the new business segment structure and updated internal funds transfer pricing methodology for consistent presentation.

2 Net interest income-FTE, Income-FTE, Total revenue-FTE, Efficiency ratio-FTE, and Tangible efficiency ratio-FTE are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent (“FTE”) basis. The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of Net interest income from certain loans and investments. The Company believes this measure to be the preferred industry measurement of Net interest income and it enhances comparability of Net interest income arising from taxable and tax-exempt sources. Total revenue-FTE equals Net interest income on an FTE basis plus Noninterest income.

3 Provision for credit losses represents net charge-offs by segment combined with an allocation to the segments for the provision attributable to quarterly changes in the Allowance for loan and lease losses and Unfunded commitment reserve balances.

4 A Tangible efficiency ratio is presented, which excludes the amortization related to intangible assets and certain tax credits. The Company believes this measure is useful to investors because, by removing the impact of amortization (the level of which may vary from company to company), it allows investors to more easily compare this segment's efficiency to other business segments and companies in the industry. This measure is utilized by management to assess the efficiency of the Company and its lines of business.

24

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Beginning in the second quarter of 2017, the Company realigned its business segment structure from three segments to two segments based on, among other things, the manner in which financial information is evaluated by management and in conjunction with Company-wide organizational changes that were announced during the first quarter of 2017. Specifically, the Company retained the previous composition of the Wholesale Banking segment and changed the basis of presentation of the Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management segment and Mortgage Banking segment such that those segments were combined into a single Consumer segment. Accordingly, prior period information has been revised to conform to the new business segment structure and updated internal funds transfer pricing methodology for consistent presentation.

25

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Net interest income-FTE, Income-FTE, Total revenue-FTE, Efficiency ratio-FTE, and Tangible efficiency ratio-FTE are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent (“FTE”) basis. The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of Net interest income from certain loans and investments. The Company believes this measure to be the preferred industry measurement of Net interest income and it enhances comparability of Net interest income arising from taxable and tax-exempt sources. Total revenue-FTE equals Net interest income on an FTE basis plus Noninterest income.

2 Provision for credit losses represents net charge-offs by segment combined with an allocation to the segments for the provision attributable to quarterly changes in the Allowance for loan and lease losses and Unfunded commitment reserve balances.

3 A Tangible efficiency ratio is presented, which excludes the amortization related to intangible assets and certain tax credits. The Company believes this measure is useful to investors because, by removing the impact of amortization (the level of which may vary from company to company), it allows investors to more easily compare this segment's efficiency to other business segments and companies in the industry. This measure is utilized by management to assess the efficiency of the Company and its lines of business.

26

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Net interest income/(expense) is driven by matched funds transfer pricing applied for segment reporting and actual Net interest income.

2 Net interest income/(expense)-FTE, Income/(loss)-FTE, and Total revenue-FTE are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent (“FTE”) basis. The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of Net interest income from certain loans and investments. The Company believes this measure to be the preferred industry measurement of Net interest income and it enhances comparability of Net interest income arising from taxable and tax-exempt sources. Total revenue-FTE equals Net interest income on an FTE basis plus Noninterest income.

3 Provision/(benefit) for credit losses represents net charge-offs by segment combined with an allocation to the segments for the provision/(benefit) attributable to quarterly changes in the Allowance for loan and lease losses and Unfunded commitments reserve balances.

27