8-K   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C. 20549  

FORM 8-K  

CURRENT REPORT  

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)  

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 30, 2019  

ANTHEM, INC.  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

220 Virginia Ave.  

Indianapolis, IN 46204  

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)  

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (800) 331-1476  

N/A  

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)  

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):  

 ☐  

Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

 ☐  

Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Indicated by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter).  

Emerging growth company ☐  

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐  

Section 2—Financial Information  

Item 2.02—Results of Operations and Financial Condition.  

On January 30, 2019, Anthem, Inc. (the “Company”) issued a press release (the “Press Release”) reporting its financial results for its fourth quarter ended December 31, 2018. A copy of the Press Release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.  

Section 7—Regulation FD  

Item 7.01—Regulation FD Disclosure  

The Company also announced in the Press Release that it delivered notice to Express Scripts, Inc. (“Express Scripts”) terminating the pharmacy benefits management services agreement between the Company and Express Scripts effective March 1, 2019.  

None of the information furnished in Item 2.02 or 7.01 hereto shall be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filings, none of the information furnished in this report shall be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.  

Section 9—Financial Statements and Exhibits  

Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.  

(d) Exhibits.  

The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:  

Exhibit No.    

Exhibit 

 99.1   Press Release, dated January 30, 2019, issued by Anthem, Inc.   

2   

Forward-Looking Statements  

This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements reflect our views about future events and financial performance and are generally not historical facts. Words such as “expect,” “feel,” “believe,” “will,” “may,” “should,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “project,” “forecast,” “plan” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to: financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. You are also urged to carefully review and consider the various risks and other disclosures discussed in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, which attempt to advise interested parties of the factors that affect our business. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: the impact of federal and state regulation, including ongoing changes in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, as amended, or collectively, the ACA, and the ultimate outcome of legal challenges to the ACA; trends in healthcare costs and utilization rates; our ability to contract with providers on cost-effective and competitive terms; our ability to secure sufficient premium rates, including regulatory approval for and implementation of such rates; competitive pressures and our ability to adapt to changes in the industry and develop and implement strategic growth opportunities; reduced enrollment; unauthorized disclosure of member or employee sensitive or confidential information, including the impact and outcome of any investigations, inquiries, claims and litigation related thereto; risks and uncertainties regarding Medicare and Medicaid programs, including those related to non-compliance with the complex regulations imposed thereon, our ability to maintain and achieve improvement in Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, Star ratings and other quality scores and funding risks with respect to revenue received from participation therein; a negative change in our health care product mix; costs and other liabilities associated with litigation, government investigations, audits or reviews; the ultimate outcome of litigation between Cigna Corporation, or Cigna, and us related to the merger agreement between the parties, including our claim for damages against Cigna, Cigna’s claim for payment of a termination fee and other damages against us, and the potential for such litigation to cause us to incur substantial costs, materially distract management and negatively impact our reputation and financial condition; non-compliance by any party with the pharmacy benefit management services agreement between Express Scripts, Inc., or Express Scripts, and us, as well as any agreements governing the transition of pharmacy benefit management services provided to us from Express Scripts to CaremarkPCS Health, L.L.C., a subsidiary of CVS Health Corporation, which could result in financial penalties, our inability to meet customer demands, and sanctions imposed by governmental entities, including CMS; medical malpractice or professional liability claims or other risks related to health care services and pharmacy benefit management services provided by our subsidiaries; possible restrictions in the payment of dividends from our subsidiaries and increases in required minimum levels of capital; the potential negative effect from our substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; the effects of any negative publicity related to the health benefits industry in general or us in particular; failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems; events that may negatively affect our licenses with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association; large scale medical emergencies, such as future public health epidemics and catastrophes; general risks associated with mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and other intangible assets; changes in economic and market conditions, as well as regulations that may negatively affect our liquidity and investment portfolios; changes in U.S. tax laws; intense competition to attract and retain employees; and, various laws and provisions in our governing documents that may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations.  

3   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  

Dated: January 30, 2019 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

4