8-K   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C. 20549  

FORM 8-K  

CURRENT REPORT  

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)  

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 23, 2019  

HENRY SCHEIN, INC.  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 135 Duryea Road Melville, New York   11747 

 (Address of principal executive offices)   (Zip Code)  

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (631) 843-5500  

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)  

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:  

 ☐  

Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

 ☐  

Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

 ☐  

Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))  

 ☐  

Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter).  

Emerging growth company ☐  

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐  

Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.  

Mars, Incorporated (“Mars”) has informed Henry Schein, Inc. (“Henry Schein” or “the Company”) that it will consolidate most of its veterinary distribution purchases with one of Henry Schein’s U.S. based distribution competitors. A transition will occur through the first quarter of 2019. Henry Schein Animal Health has been a primary distributor of animal health products to VCA, Inc. (“VCA”), which was acquired by Mars in September 2017 and also distributes products on behalf of Pet Partners. Henry Schein has been informed that although Henry Schein Animal Health will no longer be a primary supplier to VCA and Pet Partners, following the pending spin-off, it may still have a relationship with these companies. Henry Schein believes product sales from VCA and Pet Partners represent approximately $100 million in annualized revenue, is low margin and is not material to the business or earnings of Henry Schein Animal Health or Henry Schein, Inc.  

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

In accordance with the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we provide the following cautionary remarks regarding important factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied herein. All statements that address events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future with respect to the termination of this contract, including statements relating to its impact on the Company’s and Henry Schein Animal Health’s business or earnings, are forward-looking statements.  

All forward-looking statements made by us are subject to risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance and achievements or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These statements are identified by the use of such terms as “may,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “project,” “anticipate” or other comparable terms.  

Risk factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current and historical results include, but are not limited to: effects of a highly competitive and consolidating market; our dependence on third parties for the manufacture and supply of our products; our dependence upon sales personnel, customers, suppliers and manufacturers; our dependence on our senior management; fluctuations in quarterly earnings; risks from expansion of customer purchasing power and multi-tiered costing structures; increases in shipping costs for our products or other service issues with our third-party shippers; general global macro-economic conditions; risks associated with currency fluctuations; risks associated with political and economic uncertainty; disruptions in financial markets; volatility of the market price of our common stock; changes in the health care industry; implementation of health care laws; failure to comply with regulatory requirements and data privacy laws; risks associated with our global operations; transitional challenges associated with acquisitions and joint ventures, including the failure to achieve anticipated synergies; financial risks associated with acquisitions and joint ventures; litigation risks; new or unanticipated litigation developments; the dependence on our continued product development, technical support and successful marketing in the technology segment; our dependence on third parties for certain technologically advanced components; increased competition by third party online commerce sites; risks from disruption to our information systems; cyberattacks or other privacy or data security breaches; certain provisions in our governing documents that may discourage third-party acquisitions of us; changes in tax legislation; and risks associated with the ability to consummate the spin-off and merger of our animal health business with Direct Vet Marketing, Inc. (d/b/a Vets First Choice) and the timing of the closing of the transaction, as well as the ability to realize anticipated benefits and synergies of the transaction. The order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority.  

We caution that these factors may not be exhaustive and that many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Accordingly, any forward-looking statements contained herein should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. We undertake no duty and have no obligation to update forward-looking statements.   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Date: January 23, 2019