Document   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 8-K

CURRENT REPORT

Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 14, 2019

RYDER SYSTEM, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

11690 NW 105th Street

Miami, Florida33178

(Address of principal executive offices)(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (305) 500-3726

Not Applicable

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): 

oWritten communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)

oSoliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)

oPre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))

oPre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter).

 Emerging growth company ¨

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨

Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition

On February 14, 2019, we issued a press release reporting our financial results for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2018 (the “Press Release”). We will also host a conference call and webcast on February 14, 2019 during which we will make a presentation on our financial results for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2018 (the “Presentation”). The Press Release and the Presentation are available on our website at http://investors.ryder.com.

The Press Release includes information regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by SEC regulations, as well as a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the nearest GAAP measure in the tables following the Press Release. Set forth in the table below is an explanation of each non-GAAP financial measure and why management believes that presentation of each measure provides useful information to investors.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Comparable Earnings Measures:   

Comparable earnings before income tax (EBT)

Comparable earnings

Comparable earnings per diluted common share (EPS)

Comparable EPS Forecast

Comparable EPS - Excluding New Lease Accounting Standard

Comparable EPS Forecast - Excluding New Lease Accounting Standard

Comparable Tax Rate

Comparable EBT, comparable earnings, comparable EPS, comparable EPS forecast and comparable tax rate are defined, respectively, as GAAP EBT, earnings, EPS, EPS forecast and effective tax rate, all from continuing operations, excluding (1) non-operating pension costs and (2) any other items that are not representative of our business operations. We believe these comparable earnings measures provide useful information to investors and allow for better year-over-year comparison of operating performance.

Non-Operating Pension Costs: Our comparable earnings measures exclude non-operating pension costs, which include the amortization of net actuarial loss, interest cost and expected return on plan assets components of pension and postretirement costs. We exclude non-operating pension costs because we consider these to be impacted by financial market performance and outside the operational performance of our business.

Other Significant Items: Our comparable earnings measures also exclude other items that are not representative of our business operations as detailed in the reconciliation on pages 19-21 of the Press Release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report on Form 8-K. 

Comparable EPS and comparable EPS forecast excluding new lease accounting standard excludes (1) the same items that are excluded from comparable earnings and (2) the expected impact from the adoption of the new lease accounting standard (ASC No. 2016.02, Leases (Topic 842)). We are providing this measure in order to provide shareholders with more transparency to the impact of the new lease accounting standard during the transition period. These other items vary from period to period and, in some periods, there may be no such items.

Calculation of Comparable Tax Rate: The comparable provision for income taxes is computed using the same methodology as the GAAP provision for income taxes. Income tax effects of non-GAAP adjustments are calculated based on the statutory tax rates of the jurisdictions to which the non-GAAP adjustments relate.

Comparable Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization

(comparable EBITDA)

Comparable EBITDA Forecast

Comparable EBITDA and comparable EBITDA forecast is defined as earnings from continuing operations, net of tax, first adjusted to exclude the following items, all from continuing operations: (1) non-operating pension costs and (2) any other items that are not representative of our business operations (these items are the same items that are excluded from comparable earnings measures for the relevant periods and are described under Comparable Earnings Measures above) and then adjusted further for (1) interest expense, (2) income taxes, (3) depreciation, (4) losses from used vehicle fair value adjustments and (5) amortization. 

We believe comparable EBITDA provides investors with useful information, as it is a standard measure commonly reported and widely used by analysts, investors and other interested parties to measure financial performance and our ability to service debt and meet our payment obligations. In addition, we believe that the inclusion of comparable EBITDA provides consistency in financial reporting and enables analysts and investors to perform meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results. Other companies may calculate comparable EBITDA differently; therefore, our presentation of comparable EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies.

Comparable EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to earnings from continuing operations before income taxes or earnings from continuing operations determined in accordance with GAAP, as an indicator of the Company’s operating performance, as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, determined in accordance with GAAP, as an indicator of cash flows, or as a measure of liquidity.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Additional information regarding non-GAAP financial measures can be found in the Press Release and our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filed with the SEC.

The information in this Report, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, and General Instruction B.2 thereunder and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except as expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.

Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure

The Company is hosting a conference call and webcast on February 14, 2019 during which we will make a presentation on our financial results for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2018 (the "Presentation"). The Presentation has been made available on our website at http://investors.ryder.com.

Item 9.01(d) Exhibits

The following exhibit is furnished as part of this report on Form 8-K:

Exhibit 99.1Press Release, dated February 14, 2019, relating to Ryder System, Inc.’s financial results for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2018.

SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]