Exhibit 99  

 VF Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2019 Results; Raises Full Year Fiscal 2019 Outlook   

 Revenue from continuing operations increased 8 percent (up 10 percent in constant dollars) to $3.9 billion; excluding acquisitions net of divestitures, revenue increased 7 percent (up 9 percent in constant dollars);  

 Active segment revenue increased 16 percent (up 18 percent in constant dollars) including a 25 percent (27 percent in constant dollars) increase in Vans® brand revenue; Outdoor segment revenue increased 11 percent (up 12 percent in constant dollars) including a 14 percent (16 percent in constant dollars) increase in The North Face® brand revenue and a 4-percentage point revenue growth contribution from acquisitions;  

 International revenue increased 5 percent (up 9 percent in constant dollars) including a 1-percentage point revenue growth contribution from acquisitions net of divestitures; China revenue increased 18 percent (up 23 percent in constant dollars);  

 Direct-to-consumer revenue increased 10 percent (up 12 percent in constant dollars) including a 1-percentage point revenue growth contribution from acquisitions net of divestitures; Digital revenue increased 24 percent (up 26 percent in constant dollars);  

 Gross margin from continuing operations increased 40 basis points to 51.9 percent; on an adjusted basis, gross margin increased 60 basis points to 52.2 percent;  

 Earnings per share from continuing operations was $1.16. Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 30 percent (up 31 percent in constant dollars) to $1.31, including a 1-percentage point earnings growth contribution from acquisitions net of divestitures;  

 Full year fiscal 2019 revenue is now expected to increase approximately 12 percent (up 13 percent in constant dollars) to at least $13.8 billion; and,  

 Full year fiscal 2019 adjusted earnings per share is now expected to be $3.73, including an additional $45 million, or $0.09 per share, of incremental investment, reflecting an increase of 19 percent (up 20 percent in constant dollars).   

 GREENSBORO, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 18, 2019--VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC) today reported financial results for its third quarter ended December 29, 2018. All per share amounts are presented on a diluted basis. This release refers to “reported” and “constant dollar” amounts, terms that are described under the heading “Constant Currency - Excluding the Impact of Foreign Currency.” Unless otherwise noted, “reported” and “constant dollar” amounts are the same. This release also refers to “continuing” and “discontinued” operations amounts, which are concepts described under the heading “Discontinued Operations - Nautica® Brand Business and Licensing Business.” Unless otherwise noted, results presented are based on continuing operations. This release also refers to “adjusted” amounts, terms that are described under the heading “Adjusted Amounts - Excluding Williamson-Dickie, Icebreaker®, Altra®, Reef®, and Jeans Spin-Off Transaction and Deal Related Expenses, Costs Related to Office Relocations and the Provisional Impact of U.S. Tax Legislation.” Unless otherwise noted, “reported” and “adjusted” amounts are the same.  

 “VF's third quarter results were fueled by strong growth in our largest brands and balanced growth across the core dimensions of our portfolio,” said Steve Rendle, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. “Based on the strength of our third quarter performance and the growth trajectory we see for the remainder of fiscal 2019, we are again increasing our full year outlook, including an additional $45 million of growth-focused investments aimed at accelerating growth and value creation into fiscal year 2020. We remain sharply focused on executing our integrated growth strategy and transforming VF into a purpose-led, performance-driven enterprise committed to delivering superior returns to shareholders."  

 Constant Currency - Excluding the Impact of Foreign Currency  

 This release refers to “reported” amounts in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), which include translation impacts from foreign currency exchange rates. This release also refers to “constant dollar” amounts, which exclude the impact of translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. Reconciliations of GAAP measures to constant currency amounts are presented in the supplemental financial information included with this release, which identifies and quantifies all excluded items, and provides management’s view of why this information is useful to investors.  

 Discontinued Operations - Nautica® Brand Business and Licensing Business  

 On April 30, 2018, the company completed the sale of its Nautica® brand business. On April 28, 2017, the company completed the sale of its Licensed Sports Group ("LSG") business, including the Majestic® brand. In conjunction with the LSG divestiture, VF executed its plan to entirely exit the licensing business and completed the sale of the assets of the JanSport® brand collegiate business in the fourth quarter of 2017. Accordingly, the company has included the operating results of these businesses in discontinued operations through their respective dates of sale.  

 Adjusted Amounts - Excluding Williamson-Dickie, Icebreaker®, Altra®, Reef®, and Jeans Spin-Off Transaction and Deal Related Expenses, Costs Related to Office Relocations and the Provisional Impact of U.S. Tax Legislation  

 This release refers to adjusted amounts that exclude transaction and deal related expenses associated with the acquisitions and integration of Williamson-Dickie, Icebreaker® and Altra®, and expenses and losses on sale related to the divestitures of the Reef® brand and the Van Moer business, which was acquired in connection with the Williamson-Dickie acquisition. The release also refers to transaction expenses associated with the planned spin-off of the Jeans business. Total transaction and deal related expenses, including the losses on sale, were approximately $63 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and $135 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.  

 This release also refers to adjusted amounts that exclude costs primarily associated with the previously announced relocations of VF’s global headquarters and certain brands to Denver, Colorado. Total costs were approximately $6 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and $17 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.  

 Adjusted amounts in this release also exclude the provisional amounts recorded due to recent U.S. tax legislation. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Measurement period adjustments related to the provisional net charge resulted in a net expense of approximately $10 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and $23 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.  

 Combined, the above net charges negatively impacted earnings per share by $0.16 during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and $0.36 during the first nine months of fiscal 2019. All adjusted amounts referenced herein exclude the effects of these amounts.  

 Reconciliations of measures calculated in accordance with GAAP to adjusted amounts are presented in the supplemental financial information included with this release, which identifies and quantifies all excluded items, and provides management’s view of why this information is useful to investors.  

 Third Quarter Fiscal 2019 Income Statement Review   

 Revenue increased 8 percent (up 10 percent in constant dollars) to $3.9 billion. Excluding acquisitions net of divestitures, revenue increased 7 percent (up 9 percent in constant dollars), driven by VF’s largest brands, international and direct-to-consumer platforms, as well as strength from the Active, Outdoor and Work segments.  

 Gross margin increased 40 basis points to 51.9 percent, driven by a mix-shift toward higher margin businesses. On an adjusted basis, gross margin increased 60 basis points to 52.2 percent.  

 Operating income on a reported basis was $592 million. On an adjusted basis, operating income increased 30 percent to $656 million, including a $7 million contribution from acquisitions net of divestitures. Operating margin on a reported basis increased 170 basis points to 15.0 percent. Adjusted operating margin increased 270 basis points to 16.6 percent. Adjusted operating margin, excluding acquisitions net of divestitures, increased 280 basis points to 16.8 percent.  

 Earnings per share was $1.16 on a reported basis. On an adjusted basis, earnings per share increased 30 percent (up 31 percent in constant dollars) to $1.31, including a 1-percentage point growth contribution from acquisitions net of divestitures.   

 Balance Sheet Highlights  

 Inventories were up 9 percent compared with the same period last year. Excluding the impact of acquisitions net of divestitures, inventories increased 7 percent. The company also returned approximately $700 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. The company has $3.8 billion remaining under its current share repurchase authorization.  

 Adjusted Full Year Fiscal 2019 Outlook  

 The following outlook for fiscal year 2019 is on an adjusted basis and has been updated to include the following:   

 Revenue is now expected to be at least $13.8 billion, reflecting an increase of approximately 12 percent (up 13 percent in constant dollars). This compares to the previous expectation of at least $13.7 billion, which reflected an 11 percent increase. By segment, revenue for Outdoor is now expected to increase 8 percent versus the previous expectation of a 7 percent to 8 percent increase; revenue for Active is now expected to increase 16 percent versus the previous expectation of a 14 percent to 15 percent increase; revenue for Work is now expected to increase 39 percent versus the previous expectation of a more than 35 percent increase; and, revenue for Jeans is now expected to decline 3 percent versus the previous expectation of a 1 percent to 2 percent decline.  

 International revenue is now expected to increase 10 percent to 11 percent (up about 13 percent in constant dollars) versus the previous expectation of a 12 percent to 13 percent increase.  

 Direct-to-consumer revenue is now expected to increase 13 percent (up 14 percent in constant dollars) versus the previous expectation of a 12 percent to 14 percent increase. Digital revenue is still expected to increase more than 30 percent.  

 Adjusted gross margin is expected to be at least 51 percent.  

 Adjusted operating margin is expected to increase 90 basis points to 13.6 percent.  

 Adjusted earnings per share is now expected to be $3.73, including an additional $45 million, or $0.09 per share, of incremental investment, reflecting an increase of 19 percent (up 20 percent in constant dollars). This compares to the previous expectation of $3.65.  

 Cash flow from operations is still expected to approximate $1.8 billion.  

 Other full year assumptions include an effective tax rate of about 16 percent and capital expenditures of approximately $275 million.   

 Dividend Declared  

 VF’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.51 per share, payable on March 18, 2019, to shareholders of record on March 8, 2019.  

 Webcast Information  

 VF will host its third quarter fiscal 2019 conference call beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time today. The conference call will be broadcast live via the Internet, accessible at ir.vfc.com. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, an archived version will be available at the same location.  

 Presentation  

 A presentation on third quarter fiscal 2019 results will be available at ir.vfc.com beginning at approximately 7:30 a.m. Eastern Time today and will be archived at the same location.  

 About VF  

 VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC) outfits consumers around the world with its diverse portfolio of iconic lifestyle brands, including Vans®, The North Face®, Timberland®, Wrangler® and Lee®. Founded in 1899, VF is one of the world’s largest apparel, footwear and accessories companies with socially and environmentally responsible operations spanning numerous geographies, product categories and distribution channels. VF is committed to delivering innovative products to consumers and creating long-term value for its customers and shareholders. For more information, visit www.vfc.com.  

 Forward-looking Statements  

 Certain statements included in this release and attachments are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting VF and therefore involve several risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by the fact that they use words such as “will,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “should,” and “may” and other words and terms of similar meaning or use of future dates. We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results of operations or financial condition of VF to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements in this release include, but are not limited to: risks associated with the proposed spin-off of our Jeanswear business, including the risk that the spin-off will not be consummated within the anticipated time period or at all; the risk of disruption to our business in connection with the proposed spin-off and that we could lose revenue as a result of such disruption; the risk that the companies resulting from the spin-off do not realize all of the expected benefits of the spin-off; the risk that the spin-off will not be tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes; the risk that there will be a loss of synergies from separating the businesses that could negatively impact the balance sheet, profit margins or earnings of both businesses; and the risk that the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies will not be equal to or greater than the value of VF Corporation common stock had the spin-off not occurred. There are also risks associated with the relocation of our global headquarters and a number of brands to the metro Denver area, including the risk of significant disruption to our operations, the temporary diversion of management resources and loss of key employees who have substantial experience and expertise in our business, the risk that we may encounter difficulties retaining employees who elect to transfer and attracting new talent in the Denver area to replace our employees who are unwilling to relocate, the risk that the relocation may involve significant additional costs to us and that the expected benefits of the move may not be fully realized. Other risks include foreign currency fluctuations; the level of consumer demand for apparel, footwear and accessories; disruption to VF’s distribution system; VF's reliance on a small number of large customers; the financial strength of VF's customers; fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and contracted products; disruption and volatility in the global capital and credit markets; VF's response to changing fashion trends, evolving consumer preferences and changing patterns of consumer behavior, intense competition from online retailers, manufacturing and product innovation; increasing pressure on margins; VF's ability to implement its business strategy; VF's ability to grow its international and direct-to-consumer businesses; VF’s and its vendors’ ability to maintain the strength and security of information technology systems; the risk that VF's facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to and unable to anticipate or detect data security breaches and data or financial loss; VF's ability to properly collect, use, manage and secure consumer and employee data; stability of VF's manufacturing facilities and foreign suppliers; continued use by VF's suppliers of ethical business practices; VF’s ability to accurately forecast demand for products; continuity of members of VF’s management; VF's ability to protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights; possible goodwill and other asset impairment; maintenance by VF’s licensees and distributors of the value of VF’s brands; VF's ability to execute and integrate acquisitions; changes in tax laws and liabilities; legal, regulatory, political and economic risks; the risk of economic uncertainty associated with the pending exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union ("Brexit") or any other similar referendums that may be held; and adverse or unexpected weather conditions. More information on potential factors that could affect VF's financial results is included from time to time in VF's public reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including VF's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 CONTACT:

VF Corporation

Joe Alkire, 336-424-7711

Vice President, Corporate Development, Investor Relations and

Financial Planning & Analysis

or

Craig Hodges, 336-424-5636

Vice President, Corporate Affairs