Document   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, DC 20549

FORM 8-K

CURRENT REPORT

PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Date of report (Date of earliest event reported) February 15, 2019 

WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as Specified in Charter)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code (269) 923-5000

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:

¨Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)

¨Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)

¨Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))

¨Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))

 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter). 

Emerging growth company ¨

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨ 

Item 8.01. Other Events.

As previously disclosed, during the second quarter of 2011, Whirlpool Corporation modified retiree medical benefits for certain retirees to be consistent with those benefits provided by the Whirlpool Corporation Group Benefit Plan. We accounted for these changes as a plan amendment in 2011, resulting in a reduction in the postretirement benefit obligation of $138 million of which approximately $83 million of benefit has been recognized in net earnings since 2011, with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax. In response, a group of retirees initiated legal proceedings against Whirlpool asserting the above benefits are vested and changes to the plan are not permitted.

On February 15, 2019, we received a favorable decision from the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which held that the benefits at issue are not vested for life and may be altered. Plaintiffs could seek further review of the Court’s decision. We expect an immaterial financial impact from this decision. 

Whirlpool Corporation Additional Information

Certain statements in this current report relating to the Company’s expectations for the financial impact of this matter constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. These statements reflect management’s current expectations regarding future events and speak only as of the date of this current report. Forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties, should not be read as guarantees of future performance and will not necessarily be accurate indications of whether or not, or the times at or by which, events will occur. Actual performance may differ materially from that expressed or implied in such statements.

Reference should also be made to the factors discussed under “Risk Factors” in the Company’s periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Although the forward-looking statements contained in this current report are based upon what are believed to be reasonable assumptions, investors cannot be assured that actual results will be consistent with these forward-looking statements, and the differences may be material. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this current report and, except as expressly required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to update or revise them to reflect new events or circumstances.

Website Disclosure

We routinely post important information for investors on our website, whirlpoolcorp.com, in the "Investors" section. We also intend to update the Hot Topics Q&A portion of this webpage as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investors section of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, presentations and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our webpage is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this document.

SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]