ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Background

Together with our wholly-owned regional airline subsidiaries and third-party regional carriers operating as American Eagle, our airline operates an average of 6,800 flights per day to more than 365 destinations in 61 countries through our hubs and gateways in Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, London Heathrow, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, Phoenix and Washington, D.C. In 2019, approximately 215 million passengers boarded our flights.

2019 Financial Overview 

AAG’s 2019 Results

The selected financial data presented below is derived from AAG’s audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8A of this report and should be read in conjunction with those financial statements and the related notes thereto.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Pre-Tax Income and Net Income

Pre-tax income and net income were $2.3 billion and $1.7 billion in 2019, respectively. This compares to 2018 pre-tax income and net income of $1.9 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. Excluding the effects of pre-tax net special items, pre-tax income was $2.9 billion and $2.8 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The year-over-year increase in our pre-tax income on both a GAAP basis and excluding pre-tax net special items was principally driven by higher revenues and lower fuel costs, offset in part by increases in salaries, wages and benefits, maintenance expenses and costs associated with increased regional capacity.

49

Fleet and Operation

Boeing 737 MAX

On March 13, 2019, a directive from the FAA grounded all U.S.-registered Boeing 737 MAX aircraft. Our fleet currently includes 24 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft with an additional 76 aircraft on order. As a result of this directive, we canceled approximately 27,600 flights in 2019. We have removed all Boeing 737 MAX flying from our flight schedule through August 17, 2020 and continue to assess this timeline.

Our estimate of the financial damages incurred in 2019 due to the Boeing 737 MAX grounding and related cancellations was approximately $540 million.

As previously announced in January 2020, we reached a confidential agreement with Boeing on compensation related to financial damages incurred in 2019 due to the grounding of the Boeing 737 MAX aircraft. The settlement did not have a material impact on 2019 earnings because we are accounting for substantially all of the compensation as a reduction in cost basis of grounded Boeing 737 MAX aircraft and certain future Boeing 737 MAX aircraft deliveries. Our future aircraft purchase commitments in Note 12 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A reflect the portion of the compensation we expect to receive in the future as Boeing 737 MAX aircraft are delivered. These amounts reflect our best estimate in light of the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future Boeing 737 MAX aircraft deliveries.

Due to the impact of the Boeing 737 MAX grounding on our 2019 financial results, our Board of Directors authorized a discretionary portion of the settlement to be returned to team members through our 2019 profit-sharing program. The profit-sharing award was based on our estimate of full-year 2019 financial damages for the Boeing 737 MAX grounding. As a result, an additional accrual of approximately $30 million was made to our 2019 profit-sharing program.

We are pleased with the settlement agreement we reached for 2019, which was intended to address our financial damages incurred in 2019 due to the grounding of the Boeing 737 MAX aircraft. However, the aircraft remain grounded and therefore we continue to incur financial damages in 2020. We expect discussions to continue with Boeing for further compensation for these damages.

Operational Slowdown

In 2019, the TWU-IAM Association engaged in an illegal work slowdown in an effort to influence contract negotiations. This slowdown significantly impacted our operation and caused a significant number of flight cancellations and delays in the second and third quarters of 2019. Agreements in principle were reached on January 30, 2020 for JCBAs covering all of the workgroups represented by the TWU-IAM Association. Those agreements are subject to membership ratification vote. 

Revenue

In 2019, we reported total operating revenues of $45.8 billion, an increase of $1.2 billion, or 2.8%, as compared to 2018. Passenger revenue was $42.0 billion, an increase of $1.3 billion, or 3.3%, as compared to 2018. The increase in passenger revenue in 2019 was due to continued strength in passenger demand resulting in a 4.4% increase in revenue passenger miles (RPMs) and a 2.6 point increase in passenger load factor. Domestic passenger revenue per available seat mile (PRASM) increased 2.0% as compared to 2018. Latin America was the best performing international region in 2019, with PRASM increasing 3.4% followed by Pacific with PRASM increasing 3.1%, while Atlantic PRASM declined 1.5% principally due to lower transfer payments related to our joint business arrangement and foreign currency effects.

In 2019, cargo revenue was $863 million, a decrease of $150 million, or 14.8%, as compared to 2018, primarily due to a 14.4% decrease in cargo ton miles reflecting declines in freight volumes, principally as a result of international schedule reductions. Other operating revenue increased $43 million, or 1.5%, in 2019 as compared to 2018, principally driven by higher revenue associated with our airport clubs and loyalty program.

Our total revenue per available seat mile (TRASM) was 16.05 cents in 2019, a 1.7% increase as compared to 15.79 cents in 2018. 

Fuel

Our mainline and regional fuel expense totaled $9.4 billion in 2019, which was $501 million, or 5.1%, lower compared to 2018. This decrease was primarily driven by a 6.9% decrease in the average price per gallon of fuel including related taxes to $2.07 in 2019 from $2.23 in 2018, offset in part by a 2.0% increase in gallons of fuel consumed.

50

As of December 31, 2019, we did not have any fuel hedging contracts outstanding to hedge our fuel consumption. Our current policy is not to enter into transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, although we review that policy from time to time based on market conditions and other factors. As such, and assuming we do not enter into any future transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, we will continue to be fully exposed to fluctuations in fuel prices.

Other Costs

We remain committed to actively managing our cost structure, which we believe is necessary in an industry whose economic prospects are heavily dependent upon two variables we cannot control: the health of the economy and the price of fuel.

Our 2019 total cost per available seat mile (CASM) was 14.98 cents, an increase of 0.9%, from 14.85 cents in 2018. 

Our 2019 CASM excluding net special items and fuel was 11.46 cents, an increase of 3.6%, from 11.06 cents in 2018. The increase was primarily driven by higher maintenance expenses, costs associated with increased regional capacity and lower than planned capacity in 2019 due to the Boeing 737 MAX grounding.

For a reconciliation of CASM excluding net special items and fuel, see Part II, Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data – “Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures.”

Liquidity

As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately $7.0 billion in total available liquidity, consisting of $3.8 billion in unrestricted cash and short-term investments and $3.2 billion in undrawn capacity under our revolving credit facilities. We also had restricted cash and short-term investments of $158 million. 

During 2019, we completed the following significant financing transactions:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•issued $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.000% senior notes due 2022 (the 5.000% senior notes);

•raised $850 million from aircraft sale-leaseback transactions; and[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 5 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A for additional information on our debt obligations.

Additionally, we returned $1.3 billion to our stockholders in 2019, including the repurchase of $1.1 billion of our common stock, or 33.8 million shares, and quarterly dividend payments totaling $178 million. Since our capital return program commenced in mid-2014, we have returned $13.6 billion to stockholders, including $12.4 billion in share repurchases, or 312.7 million shares, and $1.2 billion in quarterly dividend payments.

51

AAG’s Results of Operations

For a comparison of the 2018 to 2017 reporting periods, see Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – “AAG’s Results of Operations – 2018 Compared to 2017” of our 2018 Form 10-K.

Operating Statistics

The table below sets forth selected operating data for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Revenue passenger mile (RPM) – A basic measure of sales volume. One RPM represents one passenger flown one mile.

(b) Available seat mile (ASM) – A basic measure of production. One ASM represents one seat flown one mile.

(c) Passenger load factor – The percentage of available seats that are filled with revenue passengers.

(d) Yield – A measure of airline revenue derived by dividing passenger revenue by RPMs.

(e) Passenger revenue per available seat mile (PRASM) – Passenger revenue divided by ASMs.

(f) Total revenue per available seat mile (TRASM) – Total revenues divided by ASMs.

(g) Includes aircraft owned and leased by American as well as aircraft operated by third-party regional carriers under capacity purchase agreements. Excludes 12 Embraer E140 regional aircraft that are in temporary storage.

(h) Operating cost per available seat mile (CASM) – Operating expenses divided by ASMs.

Results of Operations – 2019 Compared to 2018

Operating Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

52

This table presents our total passenger revenue and the year-over-year change in certain operating statistics:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Passenger revenue increased $1.3 billion, or 3.3%, in 2019 from 2018 due to continued strength in passenger demand resulting in a 4.4% increase in RPMs and a 2.6 point increase in passenger load factor. Domestic PRASM increased 2.0% in 2019 as compared to 2018. Latin America was the best performing international region in 2019, with PRASM increasing 3.4% followed by Pacific with PRASM increasing 3.1%, while Atlantic PRASM declined 1.5% principally due to lower transfer payments related to our joint business arrangement and foreign currency effects.

Cargo revenue decreased $150 million, or 14.8%, in 2019 from 2018 primarily due to a 14.4% decrease in cargo ton miles reflecting declines in international freight volumes, principally as a result of international schedule reductions.

Other operating revenue increased $43 million, or 1.5%, in 2019 from 2018 primarily due to higher revenue associated with our airport clubs and loyalty program.

Total operating revenues in 2019 increased $1.2 billion, or 2.8%, from 2018 driven principally by a 3.3% increase in passenger revenue as described above. Our TRASM was 16.05 cents in 2019, a 1.7% increase as compared to 15.79 cents in 2018.

Operating Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total operating expenses increased $818 million, or 2.0%, in 2019 from 2018. See detailed explanations below relating to changes in total CASM.

Total CASM

We sometimes use financial measures that are derived from the consolidated financial statements but that are not presented in accordance with GAAP to understand and evaluate our current operating performance and to allow for period-to-period comparisons. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures may also provide useful information to investors and others. These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similarly titled non-GAAP measures of other companies, and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, any measure of performance, 

53

cash flow or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP. We are providing a reconciliation of reported non-GAAP financial measures to their comparable financial measures on a GAAP basis.

The table below presents the reconciliation of total operating expenses (GAAP measure) to total operating costs excluding net special items and fuel (non-GAAP measure). Management uses total operating costs excluding net special items and fuel to evaluate our current operating performance and for period-to-period comparisons. The price of fuel, over which we have no control, impacts the comparability of period-to-period financial performance. The adjustment to exclude aircraft fuel and net special items allows management an additional tool to understand and analyze our non-fuel costs and core operating performance.

The major components of our total CASM and our total CASM excluding net special items and fuel for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows (amounts may not recalculate due to rounding):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Significant changes in the components of total CASM are as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

54

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Special Items, Net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Fleet restructuring expenses principally included accelerated depreciation and rent expense for aircraft and related equipment grounded or expected to be grounded earlier than planned.

(2) Fleet impairment principally includes a non-cash write-down of aircraft related to the planned retirement of our Embraer E190 fleet.

(3) Merger integration expenses included costs associated with integration projects, principally our technical operations, flight attendant, human resources and payroll systems.

(4) Bankruptcy obligations that will be settled in shares of our common stock are marked-to-market based on our stock price.

(5) Severance expenses primarily included costs associated with reductions of management and support staff team members.

(6) Intangible asset impairment includes a non-cash charge to write-off our Brazil route authority as a result of the U.S.-Brazil open skies agreement.

55

Nonoperating Results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense, net increased $39 million, or 3.7% in 2019 as compared to 2018, primarily due to lower capitalized interest.

In 2019, other nonoperating income, net principally included $183 million of non-service related pension and other postretirement benefit plan income. This income was offset in part by $32 million of net foreign currency losses principally associated with losses from Latin American currencies.

In 2018, other nonoperating income, net principally included $308 million of non-service related pension and other postretirement benefit plan income. This income was offset in part by a $104 million net special charge for mark-to-market unrealized losses primarily associated with our equity investment in China Southern Airlines and $55 million of net foreign currency losses from Latin American currencies.

The decrease in non-service related pension and other postretirement benefit plan income in 2019 as compared to 2018 is principally due to a decrease in the expected return on pension plan assets.

Income Taxes

In 2019, we recorded an income tax provision of $570 million at an effective rate of approximately 25%, which was substantially non-cash due to utilization of our net operating losses (NOLs). Substantially all of our income before income taxes is attributable to the United States. At December 31, 2019, we had approximately $9.1 billion of federal NOLs and $3.0 billion of state NOLs, substantially all of which we expect to be available in 2020 to reduce future federal and state taxable income.

In 2018, we recorded an income tax provision of $472 million at an effective rate of approximately 25%, which was substantially non-cash. This provision included an $18 million special income tax charge related to an international income tax matter.

See Note 7 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A for additional information on income taxes.

American’s Results of Operations

For a comparison of the 2018 to 2017 reporting periods, see Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – “American’s Results of Operations – 2018 Compared to 2017” of American’s 2018 Form 10-K.

Results of Operations – 2019 Compared to 2018 

Operating Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

56

Passenger revenue increased $1.3 billion, or 3.3%, in 2019 from 2018 due to continued strength in passenger demand resulting in an increase in RPMs and a year-over-year increase in passenger load factor. Domestic PRASM increased in 2019 as compared to 2018. Latin America PRASM was the best performing international region in 2019, followed by Pacific PRASM, while Atlantic PRASM declined principally due to lower transfer payments related to American’s joint business arrangement and foreign currency effects. 

Cargo revenue decreased $150 million, or 14.8%, in 2019 from 2018 primarily due to a decrease in cargo ton miles reflecting declines in international freight volumes, principally as a result of international schedule reductions.

Other operating revenue increased $47 million, or 1.7% in 2019 from 2018 primarily due to higher revenue associated with American’s airport clubs and loyalty program.

Total operating revenues in 2019 increased $1.2 billion, or 2.8%, from 2018 driven principally by a 3.3% increase in passenger revenue as described above.

Operating Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total operating expenses increased $907 million, or 2.2%, in 2019 from 2018. 

Significant changes in the components of American’s total operating expenses are as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

57

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Special Items, Net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Fleet restructuring expenses principally included accelerated depreciation and rent expense for aircraft and related equipment grounded or expected to be grounded earlier than planned.

(2) Fleet impairment principally includes a non-cash write-down of aircraft related to the planned retirement of American's Embraer E190 fleet.

(3) Merger integration expenses included costs associated with integration projects, principally American's technical operations, flight attendant, human resources and payroll systems.

(4) Bankruptcy obligations that will be settled in shares of AAG common stock are marked-to-market based on AAG’s stock price.

(5) Severance expenses primarily included costs associated with reductions of management and support staff team members.

(6) Intangible asset impairment includes a non-cash charge to write-off American’s Brazil route authority as a result of the U.S.-Brazil open skies agreement.

Nonoperating Results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest income increased $185 million, or 56.1%, due to higher interest-bearing related party receivables from American’s parent company, AAG in 2019 as compared to 2018.

58

Interest expense, net increased $81 million, or 7.8%, in 2019 as compared to 2018, primarily due to higher-interest bearing related party payables to other AAG subsidiaries and lower capitalized interest.

In 2019, other nonoperating income, net principally included $183 million of non-service related pension and other postretirement benefit plan income. This income was offset in part by $32 million of net foreign currency losses principally associated with losses from Latin American currencies.

In 2018, other nonoperating income, net principally included $309 million of non-service related pension and other postretirement benefit plan income. This income was offset in part by a $104 million net special charge for mark-to-market unrealized losses primarily associated with American’s equity investment in China Southern Airlines and $54 million of net foreign currency losses from Latin American currencies.

The decrease in non-service related pension and other postretirement benefit plan income in 2019 as compared to 2018 is principally due to a decrease in the expected return on pension plan assets.

Income Taxes

American is part of the AAG consolidated income tax return.

In 2019, American recorded an income tax provision of $633 million at an effective rate of approximately 24%, which was substantially non-cash due to utilization of its NOLs. Substantially all of American’s income before income taxes is attributable to the United States. At December 31, 2019, American had approximately $9.2 billion of federal NOLs and $2.9 billion of state NOLs, substantially all of which American expects to be available in 2020 to reduce future federal and state taxable income.

In 2018, American recorded an income tax provision of $534 million at an effective rate of approximately 24%, which was substantially non-cash. This provision included an $18 million special income tax charge related to an international income tax matter.

See Note 5 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B for additional information on income taxes.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity

As of December 31, 2019, AAG had approximately $7.0 billion in total available liquidity and $158 million in restricted cash and short-term investments. Additional detail regarding our available liquidity is provided in the table below (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) For 2019, this amount includes $400 million in borrowing capacity under a short-term revolving line of credit we arranged in December 2019 due to uncertainty surrounding the timing of the Boeing 737 MAX aircraft return to service. We have no present intention to borrow any amounts under this facility, which matures in September 2020 with an optional extension to December 2020. For additional discussion of this facility see Note 5 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 3 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B.

59

Share Repurchase Programs

In April 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a $2.0 billion share repurchase program that will expire on December 31, 2020. Since July 2014, our Board of Directors has approved seven share repurchase programs aggregating $13.0 billion of authority. As of December 31, 2019, there was $565 million of remaining authority to repurchase shares under our current $2.0 billion share repurchase program. Share repurchases under our repurchase programs may be made through a variety of methods, which may include open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, block trades or accelerated share repurchase transactions. Any such repurchases that may be made from time to time will be subject to market and economic conditions, applicable legal requirements and other relevant factors. We are not obligated to repurchase any specific number of shares and our repurchase of AAG common stock may be limited, suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion and without prior notice.

In 2019, we repurchased 33.8 million shares of AAG common stock for $1.1 billion at a weighted average cost per share of $32.09. Since the inception of our share repurchase programs in July 2014 through December 31, 2019, we have repurchased 312.7 million shares of AAG common stock for $12.4 billion at a weighted average cost per share of $39.76.

Cash Dividends

Our Board of Directors declared the following cash dividends during 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In January 2020, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a $0.10 per share cash dividend for stockholders of record on February 5, 2020, and payable on February 19, 2020.

Any future dividends that may be declared and paid from time to time will be subject to market and economic conditions, applicable legal requirements and other relevant factors. We are not obligated to continue a dividend for any fixed period, and the payment of dividends may be suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion and without prior notice.

Collateral-Related Covenants

Certain of our debt financing agreements (including our term loans, revolving credit facilities and spare engine EETCs) contain loan to value ratio covenants and require us to appraise the related collateral annually. Pursuant to such agreements, if the loan to value ratio exceeds a specified threshold or the value of the appraised collateral fails to meet a specified threshold, as the case may be, we are required, as applicable, to pledge additional qualifying collateral (which in some cases may include cash or investment securities), or pay down such financing, in whole or in part. As of December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with the foregoing collateral coverage tests as of the most recent applicable measurement dates. For further information regarding our collateral-related covenants, see Note 5 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 3 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B.

Sources and Uses of Cash

For a comparison of the 2018 and 2017 reporting periods, see Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – “Sources and Uses of Cash” of our 2018 Form 10-K.

AAG

2019 Compared to 2018 

Operating Activities

Our net cash provided by operating activities was $3.8 billion and $3.5 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively, a year-over-year increase of $282 million. This increase in operating cash flows was primarily due to higher profitability in 2019 as well as working capital increases principally in our air traffic liability and loyalty program deferred revenue. These increases were offset in part by higher contributions to our defined benefit pension plans in 2019 as compared to 2018.

60

Investing Activities

Our net cash used in investing activities was $2.2 billion and $2.0 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Our principal investing activities in 2019 included expenditures of $4.3 billion for property and equipment, including 21 Embraer E175 aircraft, 12 Bombardier CRJ900 aircraft, 12 Airbus A321neo aircraft, four Boeing 737 MAX aircraft and two Boeing 787 Family aircraft. These cash outflows were offset in part by $960 million in net sales of short-term investments, $850 million of proceeds from aircraft sale-leaseback transactions and $250 million in proceeds from a vendor.

Our principal investing activities in 2018 included expenditures of $3.7 billion for property and equipment, including 16 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, six Boeing 787 family aircraft and five Embraer E175 aircraft. These cash outflows were offset in part by $1.1 billion of proceeds from aircraft sale-leaseback transactions and $293 million in net sales of short-term investments.

Financing Activities

Our net cash used in financing activities was $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Our principal financing activities in 2019 included $4.2 billion in debt repayments, consisting of $2.9 billion in scheduled debt repayments and the prepayment of $1.3 billion of secured loans. We also had $1.1 billion in share repurchases and $178 million in dividend payments. These cash outflows were offset in part by $4.0 billion in proceeds from the issuance of debt, consisting of $3.2 billion in connection with the issuance of equipment notes related to EETCs and the financing of certain aircraft and other flight equipment, as well as the issuance of $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.000% senior notes.

Our principal financing activities in 2018 included $2.9 billion in debt repayments, consisting of $2.4 billion in scheduled debt repayments and the prepayment of $513 million of secured loans. We also had $837 million in share repurchases and $186 million in dividend payments. These cash outflows were offset in part by $2.4 billion in proceeds from the issuance of debt, consisting of $1.9 billion in connection with the issuance of equipment notes related to EETCs and the financing of certain aircraft and pre-delivery purchase deposits, as well as an incremental $500 million on a term loan facility.

American

2019 Compared to 2018

Operating Activities

American’s net cash provided by operating activities was $2.4 billion and $1.9 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively, a year-over-year increase of $486 million. This increase in operating cash flows was primarily due to higher profitability in 2019 as well as working capital increases principally in American's air traffic liability and loyalty program deferred revenue. These increases were offset in part by higher contributions to American's defined benefit pension plans in 2019 as compared to 2018.

Investing Activities

American’s net cash used in investing activities was $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively.

American’s principal investing activities in 2019 included expenditures of $4.2 billion for property and equipment, including 21 Embraer E175 aircraft, 12 Bombardier CRJ900 aircraft, 12 Airbus A321neo aircraft, four Boeing 737 MAX aircraft and two Boeing 787 Family aircraft. These cash outflows were offset in part by $960 million in net sales of short-term investments, $850 million of proceeds from aircraft sale-leaseback transactions and $250 million in proceeds from a vendor.

American’s principal investing activities in 2018 included expenditures of $3.7 billion for property and equipment, including 16 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, six Boeing 787 family aircraft and five Embraer E175 aircraft. These cash outflows were offset in part by $1.1 billion of proceeds from aircraft sale-leaseback transactions and $293 million in net sales of short-term investments.

Financing Activities

American’s net cash used in financing activities was $282 million and $147 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively.

61

American’s principal financing activities in 2019 included $3.4 billion in debt repayments, consisting of $2.1 billion in scheduled debt repayments and the prepayment of $1.3 billion of secured loans. These cash outflows were offset in part by $3.2 billion in proceeds from the issuance of debt for equipment notes related to EETCs and the financing of certain aircraft and other flight equipment.

American’s principal financing activities in 2018 included $2.4 billion in debt repayments, consisting of $1.9 billion in scheduled debt repayments and the prepayment of $513 million of secured loans. These cash outflows were offset by $2.4 billion in proceeds from the issuance of debt, consisting of $1.9 billion in connection with the issuance of equipment notes related to EETCs and the financing of certain aircraft and pre-delivery purchase deposits, as well as an incremental $500 million on a term loan facility.

Commitments

For further information regarding our commitments, see the Notes to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and the Notes to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B at the referenced footnotes below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

An off-balance sheet arrangement is any transaction, agreement or other contractual arrangement involving an unconsolidated entity under which a company has (1) made guarantees, (2) a retained or a contingent interest in transferred assets, (3) an obligation under derivative instruments classified as equity or (4) any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to us, or that engages in leasing, hedging or research and development arrangements with us.

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements of the types described in the first three categories above that we believe may have a material current or future effect on financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. 

Pass-Through Trusts

American currently operates 382 owned aircraft and 69 leased aircraft, and owns 79 spare aircraft engines, which in each case were financed with EETCs issued by pass-through trusts. These trusts are off-balance sheet entities, the primary purpose of which is to finance the acquisition of flight equipment or to permit issuance of debt backed by existing flight equipment. In the case of aircraft EETCs, rather than finance each aircraft separately when such aircraft is purchased, delivered or refinanced, these trusts allow American to raise the financing for a number of aircraft at one time and, if applicable, place such funds in escrow pending a future purchase, delivery or refinancing of the relevant aircraft. Similarly, in the case of the spare engine EETCs, the trusts allow American to use its existing pool of spare engines to raise financing under a single facility. The trusts have also been structured to provide for certain credit enhancements, such as liquidity facilities to cover certain interest payments, that reduce the risks to the purchasers of the trust certificates and, as a result, reduce the cost of aircraft financing to American.

Each trust covers a set number of aircraft or spare engines scheduled to be delivered, financed or refinanced upon the issuance of the EETC or within a specific period of time thereafter. At the time of each covered aircraft or spare engine financing, the relevant trust used the proceeds of the issuance of the EETC (which may have been available at the time of issuance thereof or held in escrow until financing of the applicable aircraft following its delivery) to purchase equipment notes relating to the financed aircraft or engines. The equipment notes are issued, at American’s election, in connection with a mortgage financing of the aircraft or spare engines or, in certain cases, by a separate owner trust in connection with a leveraged lease financing of the aircraft. In the case of a leveraged lease financing, the owner trust then leases the aircraft to American. In both cases, the equipment notes are secured by a security interest in the aircraft or engines, as applicable. The pass-through trust certificates are not direct obligations of, nor are they guaranteed by, AAG or American. However, in the case of mortgage financings, the equipment notes issued to the trusts are direct obligations of American and, in certain instances, have been guaranteed by AAG. As of December 31, 2019, $11.9 billion associated with these mortgage financings is reflected as debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.

62

With respect to leveraged leases, American evaluated whether the leases had characteristics of a variable interest entity. American concluded the leasing entities met the criteria for variable interest entities; however, American concluded it is not the primary beneficiary under these leasing arrangements and accounts for the majority of its EETC leveraged lease financings as operating leases. American’s total future payments to the trusts of each of the relevant EETCs under these leveraged lease financings are $177 million as of December 31, 2019. 

Letters of Credit and Other

We provide financial assurance, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or restricted cash and investments, primarily to support projected workers’ compensation obligations and airport commitments. As of December 31, 2019, we had $572 million of letters of credit and surety bonds securing various obligations. The letters of credit and surety bonds that are subject to expiration will expire on various dates through 2022.

Contractual Obligations

The following table provides details of our future cash contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019. Except to the extent set forth in the applicable accompanying footnotes, this table does not include commitments that are contingent on events or other factors that are uncertain or unknown at this time.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) For additional information, see the Notes to AAG’s and American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Items 8A and 8B, respectively, referenced in the table above.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(c) For variable-rate debt, future interest obligations are estimated using the current forward rates at December 31, 2019.

63

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(e) See Part I, Item 2. Properties – “Aircraft and Engine Purchase Commitments” for additional information about the firm commitment aircraft delivery schedule, in particular the footnotes to the table thereunder as to potential changes to such delivery schedule. Due to uncertainty surrounding the timing of delivery of certain aircraft, the amounts in the table represent our current best estimate, including with respect to the delivery of Boeing 737 MAX aircraft; however, the actual delivery schedule may differ from the table above, potentially materially. Additionally, the amounts in the table exclude 22 787-8 aircraft to be delivered in 2020 and 2021 for which Boeing has committed to provide sale-leaseback financing (in the form of operating leases). This financing is reflected in the operating lease commitments line above. 

(f) Represents minimum payments under capacity purchase agreements with third-party regional carriers. These commitments are estimates of costs based on assumed minimum levels of flying under the capacity purchase agreements and our actual payments could differ materially. Rental payments under operating leases for certain aircraft flown under these capacity purchase agreements are reflected in the operating lease commitments line above.

(g) Includes minimum pension contributions based on actuarially determined estimates and is based on estimated payments through 2029.

(h) Includes purchase commitments for aircraft fuel, construction projects and information technology support.

Capital Raising Activity and Other Possible Actions

In light of our significant financial commitments related to, among other things, new flight equipment, the servicing and amortization of existing debt and equipment leasing arrangements, and future pension funding obligations, we and our subsidiaries will regularly consider, and enter into negotiations related to, capital raising activity, which may include the entry into leasing transactions and future issuances of secured or unsecured debt obligations or additional equity securities in public or private offerings or otherwise. The cash available from operations and these sources, however, may not be sufficient to cover cash contractual obligations because economic factors may reduce the amount of cash generated by operations or increase costs. For instance, an economic downturn or general global instability caused by military actions, terrorism, disease outbreaks, natural disasters or other causes could reduce the demand for air travel, which would reduce the amount of cash generated by operations. An increase in costs, either due to an increase in borrowing costs caused by a reduction in credit ratings or a general increase in interest rates, or due to an increase in the cost of fuel, maintenance, aircraft, aircraft engines or parts, could decrease the amount of cash available to cover cash contractual obligations. Moreover, certain of our financing arrangements contain significant minimum cash balance requirements. As a result, we cannot use all of our available cash to fund operations, capital expenditures and cash obligations without violating these requirements. See Note 5 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 3 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B for information regarding our financing arrangements.

In the past, we have from time to time refinanced, redeemed or repurchased our debt and taken other steps to reduce or otherwise manage the aggregate amount and cost of our debt or lease obligations or otherwise improve our balance sheet. Going forward, depending on market conditions, our cash position and other considerations, we may continue to take such actions.

Our Board of Directors has from time to time authorized programs to repurchase shares of our common stock, one of which is currently in effect, and may authorize additional share repurchase programs in the future.

OTHER INFORMATION

Basis of Presentation

See Note 1 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 1 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B for information regarding the basis of presentation.

64

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. We believe our estimates and assumptions are reasonable; however, actual results could differ from those estimates. Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are reflective of significant judgments and uncertainties and could potentially result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. We have identified the following critical accounting policies that impact the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. See the “Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” included in Note 1 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 1 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B for additional discussion of the application of these estimates and other accounting policies.

Passenger Revenue

We recognize all revenues generated from transportation on American and our regional flights operated under the brand name American Eagle, including associated baggage fees, ticketing change fees and other inflight services, as passenger revenue when transportation is provided. Ticket and other related sales for transportation that has not yet been provided are initially deferred and recorded as air traffic liability on our consolidated balance sheets. The air traffic liability principally represents tickets sold for future travel on American and partner airlines, as well as estimated future refunds and exchanges of tickets sold for past travel. 

The majority of tickets sold are nonrefundable. A small percentage of tickets, some of which are partially used tickets, expire unused. Due to complex pricing structures, refund and exchange policies, and interline agreements with other airlines, certain amounts are recognized in passenger revenue using estimates regarding both the timing of the revenue recognition and the amount of revenue to be recognized. These estimates are generally based on the analysis of our historical data. We have consistently applied this accounting method to estimate revenue from unused tickets at the date of travel. Estimated future refunds and exchanges included in the air traffic liability are routinely evaluated based on subsequent activity to validate the accuracy of our estimates. Any adjustments resulting from periodic evaluations of the estimated air traffic liability are included in passenger revenue during the period in which the evaluations are completed. 

Various taxes and fees assessed on the sale of tickets to end customers are collected by us as an agent and remitted to taxing authorities. These taxes and fees have been presented on a net basis in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and recorded as a liability until remitted to the appropriate taxing authority.

Loyalty Revenue

We currently operate the loyalty program, AAdvantage. This program awards mileage credits to passengers who fly on American, any oneworld airline or other partner airlines, or by using the services of other program participants, such as the Citi and Barclaycard US co-branded credit cards, and certain hotels and car rental companies. Mileage credits can be redeemed for travel on American and other participating partner airlines, as well as other non-air travel awards such as hotels and rental cars. For mileage credits earned by AAdvantage loyalty program members, we apply the deferred revenue method.

Mileage credits earned through travel

For mileage credits earned through travel, we apply a relative selling price approach whereby the total amount collected from each passenger ticket sale is allocated between the air transportation and the mileage credits earned. The portion of each passenger ticket sale attributable to mileage credits earned is initially deferred and then recognized in passenger revenue when mileage credits are redeemed and transportation is provided. The estimated selling price of mileage credits is determined using an equivalent ticket value approach, which uses historical data, including award redemption patterns by geographic region and class of service, as well as similar fares as those used to settle award redemptions. The estimated selling price of miles is adjusted for an estimate of miles that will not be redeemed based on historical redemption patterns. For the year ended December 31, 2019, a hypothetical 10% increase in the estimated selling price of miles would have decreased revenues by approximately $135 million as a result of additional amounts deferred from passenger ticket sales to be recognized in future periods. 

65

Mileage credits sold to co-branded credit cards and other partners 

We sell mileage credits to participating airline partners and non-airline business partners, including our co-branded credit card partners, under contracts with terms extending generally for one to seven years. Consideration received from the sale of mileage credits is variable and payment terms typically are within 30 days subsequent to the month of mileage sale. Sales of mileage credits to non-airline business partners are comprised of two components, transportation and marketing. We allocate the consideration received from these sales of mileage credits based on the relative selling price of each product or service delivered.

Our most significant partner agreements are our co-branded credit card agreements with Citi and Barclaycard US that we entered into in 2016. We identified the following revenue elements in these co-branded credit card agreements: the transportation component; and the use of intellectual property, including the American brand and access to loyalty program member lists, which is the predominant element in the agreements, as well as advertising (collectively, the marketing component). Accordingly, we recognize the marketing component in other revenue in the period of the mileage sale following the sales-based royalty method.

The transportation component represents the estimated selling price of future travel awards and is determined using the same equivalent ticket value approach described above. The portion of each mileage credit sold attributable to transportation is initially deferred and then recognized in passenger revenue when mileage credits are redeemed and transportation is provided.

For the portion of our outstanding mileage credits that we estimate will not be redeemed, we recognize the associated value proportionally as the remaining mileage credits are redeemed. Our estimates are based on analysis of historical redemptions. For the year ended December 31, 2019, a hypothetical 10% increase in our estimate of miles not expected to be redeemed would have increased revenues by approximately $95 million.

Cargo Revenue

Cargo revenue is recognized when we provide the transportation.

Other Revenue

Other revenue includes revenue associated with our loyalty program, which is comprised principally of the marketing component of mileage sales to co-branded credit card and other partners and other marketing related payments. The accounting and recognition for the loyalty program marketing services are discussed above in “Loyalty Revenue.” The remaining amounts included within other revenue relate to airport clubs, advertising and vacation-related services.

Long-lived Assets

Long-lived assets consist of flight equipment, as well as other fixed assets and definite-lived intangible assets such as certain domestic airport slots, customer relationships, marketing agreements, tradenames and airport gate leasehold rights. In addition to the original cost, the recorded value of our fixed assets is impacted by a number of estimates made, including estimated useful lives, salvage values and our determination as to whether aircraft are temporarily or permanently grounded. Definite-lived intangible assets are originally recorded at their acquired fair values and are subsequently amortized over their estimated useful lives. See Note 1 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 1 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B for further information.

We assess impairment of long-lived assets used in operations when events and circumstances indicate that the assets may be impaired. An asset or group of assets is considered impaired when the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by the assets are less than the carrying amount of the assets and the net book value of the assets exceeds their estimated fair value. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Estimates of fair value represent management’s best estimate based on appraisals, industry trends and reference to market rates and transactions.

The majority of American’s aircraft fleet types are depreciated over 25-30 years. It is possible that the ultimate lives of our aircraft will be significantly different than the current estimate due to unforeseen events in the future that impact our fleet plan. 

66

Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Assets

Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is not amortized but is assessed for impairment annually on October 1 or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. We have one consolidated reporting unit.

Indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill include certain domestic airport slots and international slots and route authorities. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but instead are assessed for impairment annually on October 1 or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired.

Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment by initially performing a qualitative assessment. Under the qualitative approach, we analyze the following factors, among others, to determine if events and circumstances have affected the fair value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets: (1) negative trends in our market capitalization, (2) an increase in fuel prices, (3) declining per mile passenger yields, (4) lower passenger demand as a result of a weakened U.S. and global economy and (5) changes to the regulatory environment.

Based upon our annual assessment, there were no impairments of our goodwill and no material impairments of our indefinite-lived assets in 2019.

Pensions and Retiree Medical and Other Postretirement Benefits

We recognize the funded status (i.e., the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligations) of our pension and retiree medical and other postretirement benefits plans in the consolidated balance sheets with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

Our pension and retiree medical and other postretirement benefits costs and liabilities are calculated using various actuarial assumptions and methodologies. We use certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the selection of the: (1) discount rate, (2) expected return on plan assets and (3) expected health care cost trend rate (as discussed below). These assumptions as of December 31 were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

67

During 2019, we reviewed and revised certain economic and demographic assumptions including the pension and retiree medical and other postretirement benefits discount rates and health care cost trend rates. The net effect of changing these assumptions for the pension plans resulted in an increase of $2.1 billion in the projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2019. The net effect of changing these assumptions for retiree medical and other postretirement benefits plans resulted in an increase of $71 million in the projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2019. We also revised our mortality assumptions to incorporate the new Pri-2012 mortality tables and improvement scale issued by the Society of Actuaries. This resulted in a decrease in the projected benefit obligations of our pension and retiree medical and other postretirement benefits plans of $127 million and $11 million, respectively.

See Note 10 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 8 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B for additional information regarding our employee benefit plans.

Recent Accounting Pronouncement

ASU 2016-13: Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326)

This ASU requires the use of an expected loss model for certain types of financial instruments and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to calculate credit loss estimates. For trade receivables, loans and held-to-maturity debt securities, an estimate of lifetime expected credit losses is required. For available-for-sale debt securities, an allowance for credit losses will be required rather than a reduction to the carrying value of the asset. This standard is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019. While we have not completed our evaluation of the impact of adoption of this standard, we do not expect it to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK