ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

Investors should review carefully the following material risk factors and the other information contained in this report. The risks that the Ameren Companies face are not limited to those in this section. There may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may adversely affect the results of operations, financial position, and liquidity of the Ameren Companies.

REGULATORY AND LEGISLATIVE RISKS

We are subject to extensive regulation of our businesses.

We are subject to federal, state, and local regulation. The extensive regulatory frameworks, some of which are more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulate, among other matters, the electric and natural gas utility industries; the rate and cost structure of utilities, including an allowed ROE; the operation of nuclear power plants; the construction and operation of generation, transmission, and distribution facilities; the acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities; the electric transmission system reliability; and wholesale and retail competition. In the planning and management of our operations, we must address the effects of existing and proposed laws and regulations and potential changes in our regulatory frameworks, including initiatives by federal and state legislatures, RTOs, utility regulators, and taxing authorities. Significant changes in the nature of the regulation of our businesses could require changes to our business planning and management of our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Failure to obtain adequate rates or regulatory approvals in a timely manner; failure to obtain necessary licenses or permits from regulatory authorities; the impact of new or modified laws, regulations, standards, interpretations, or other legal requirements; or increased compliance costs could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

The electric and natural gas rates that we are allowed to charge are determined through regulatory proceedings, which are subject to intervention and appeal. Rates are also subject to legislative actions, which are largely outside of our control. Certain events could prevent us from recovering our costs in a timely manner or from earning adequate returns on our investments.

The rates that we are allowed to charge for our utility services significantly influence our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. The electric and natural gas utility industry is highly regulated. The utility rates charged to customers are determined by governmental entities, including the MoPSC, the ICC, and the FERC. Decisions by these entities are influenced by many factors, including the cost of providing service, the prudency of expenditures, the quality of service, regulatory staff knowledge and experience, customer intervention, and economic conditions, as well as social and political views. Decisions made by these governmental entities regarding rates are largely outside of our control. We are exposed to regulatory lag and cost disallowances to varying degrees by jurisdiction, which, if unmitigated, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Rate orders are also subject to appeal, which creates additional uncertainty as to the rates that we will ultimately be allowed to charge for our services. From time to time, our regulators may approve trackers, riders, or other recovery mechanisms that allow electric or natural gas rates to be adjusted without a traditional regulatory rate review. These mechanisms could be changed or terminated.

Ameren Missouri’s electric and natural gas utility rates and Ameren Illinois’ natural gas utility rates are typically established in regulatory proceedings that take up to 11 months to complete. Ameren Missouri’s rates established in those proceedings are primarily based on historical costs and revenues. Ameren Illinois’ natural gas rates established in those proceedings are based on estimated future costs and revenues. Thus, the rates that we are allowed to charge for utility services may not match our actual costs at any given time.

16
Rates include an allowed return on investments established by the regulator, including a return at the applicable WACC on rate base, and an amount for income taxes based on the currently applicable statutory income tax rates and amortization associated with excess deferred income taxes. Although rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on rate base, there can be no assurance that the regulator will determine that our costs were prudently incurred or that the regulatory process will result in rates that will produce full recovery of such costs or provide for an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on those investments. Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois, and the utility industry generally, have an increased need for cost recovery, primarily driven by capital investments, which is likely to continue in the future. The resulting increase to the revenue requirement needed to recover such costs and earn a return on investments could result in more frequent regulatory rate reviews and requests for cost recovery mechanisms. Additionally, increasing rates could result in regulatory or legislative actions, as well as competitive or political pressures, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Ameren, through ATXI and Ameren Illinois, is investing significant capital resources in electric transmission. These investments are based on the FERC’s regulatory framework and an allowed ROE that is currently higher than that allowed by our state commissions. However, the FERC regulatory framework and rate of return are subject to change, including as a result of appeals and challenges to the new methodology for determining the base ROE established by the FERC in November 2019. Accordingly, the regulatory framework may be less favorable or the rate of return may be lower in the future, compared with the current regulatory environment and rate of return, all of which may adversely affect Ameren’s and Ameren Illinois’ results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. A 50 basis point reduction in the FERC-allowed ROE would reduce Ameren’s and Ameren Illinois’ annual net income by an estimated $10 million and $6 million, respectively, based on each company’s 2020 projected rate base.

As a result of its participation in performance-based formula ratemaking, Ameren Illinois’ ROE for its electric distribution service and its electric energy-efficiency investments is directly correlated to yields on United States Treasury bonds. Additionally, Ameren Illinois is required to achieve certain performance standards. 

Ameren Illinois elects to participate in a performance-based formula ratemaking framework established pursuant to the IEIMA for its electric distribution service. Ameren Illinois’ electric distribution revenues are decoupled from sales volumes, which ensures that the electric distribution revenues authorized in a regulatory rate review are not affected by changes in sales volumes. Ameren Illinois also has an electric energy-efficiency program rider, which includes a return at the applicable WACC on its program investments that is subject to performance-based formula ratemaking. The ICC annually reviews Ameren Illinois’ rate filings for reasonableness and prudency. If the ICC were to conclude that Ameren Illinois’ costs were not prudently incurred, the ICC would disallow recovery of such costs. The electric distribution service performance-based formula ratemaking framework expires at the end of 2022, if not extended by the legislature, while the decoupling provisions extend beyond the end of formula ratemaking by law. If not extended, Ameren Illinois would then be required to establish future rates through a traditional regulatory rate review with the ICC, which might result in rates that do not produce a full or timely recovery of costs or provide for an adequate return on investments and would expose Ameren Illinois’ electric distribution business to the risks described in the immediately preceding risk factor.

The allowed ROE under both formula ratemaking recovery mechanisms is based on the annual average of the monthly yields of the 30-year United States Treasury bonds plus 580 basis points. Therefore, Ameren Illinois’ annual ROE for its electric distribution business is directly correlated to the yields on such bonds, which are outside of Ameren Illinois’ control. With respect to electric distribution service, a 50 basis point change in the annual average of the monthly yields of the 30-year United States Treasury bonds would result in an estimated $9 million change in Ameren’s and Ameren Illinois’ annual net income, based on its 2020 projected rate base.

Ameren Illinois is also subject to performance standards. Failure to achieve the standards would result in a reduction in the company’s allowed ROE calculated under the ratemaking formulas. The performance standards applicable to electric distribution service include improvements in service reliability to reduce both the frequency and duration of outages, a reduction in the number of estimated bills, a reduction of consumption from inactive meters, and a reduction in bad debt expense. The electric distribution service regulatory framework provides for ROE penalties up to 38 basis points in each year from 2020 through 2022, if these performance standards are not met. The allowed ROE on energy-efficiency investments can be increased or decreased up to 200 basis points, depending on the achievement of annual energy savings goals. Any adjustments to the allowed ROE for energy-efficiency investments will depend on annual performance of a historical period relative to energy savings goals. In 2019, 2018, and 2017, there were no material performance-related basis point adjustments.

Pursuant to the FEJA, Ameren Illinois plans to invest up to approximately $100 million per year in electric energy-efficiency programs through 2024, and will earn a return on those investments. While the ICC has approved a plan consistent with this spending level through 2021, the ICC has the ability to reduce the amount of electric energy-efficiency savings goals in future plan program years if there are insufficient cost-effective programs available, which could reduce the investments in electric energy-efficiency programs.

17
As a result of the PISA, Ameren Missouri’s electric rates are subject to a rate cap. 

As a result of Ameren Missouri’s election to use the PISA, its rate increases are limited to a 2.85% compound annual growth rate in the average overall customer rate per kilowatthour, based on the electric rates that became effective in April 2017, less half of the annual savings from the TCJA that was passed on to customers as approved in the July 2018 MoPSC order. If rate changes from the FAC or the RESRAM riders would cause rates to temporarily exceed the 2.85% rate cap, the overage would be deferred for future recovery in the next regulatory rate review; however, rates established in such regulatory rate review would be subject to the rate cap. Any deferred overages approved for recovery would be recovered in a manner consistent with costs recovered under the PISA. Increased capital investments and operating costs could cause customer rates to exceed the rate cap. In addition, a decrease in off-system sales, which are included in net energy costs, could also contribute to customer rates exceeding the rate cap. Off-system sales are affected by planned and unplanned outages at Ameren Missouri's energy centers, and by curtailment of generation resulting from unfavorable economic conditions, among other things. Excluding customer rates under the MEEIA rider, which are not subject to the rate cap, Ameren Missouri would incur a penalty equal to the amount of deferred overage that would cause customer rates to exceed the 2.85% rate cap. A penalty incurred as the result of exceeding the rate cap could adversely affect Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Both the rate cap and the PISA election are effective through December 2023, unless Ameren Missouri requests and receives MoPSC approval of an extension through December 2028.

We are subject to various environmental laws. Significant capital expenditures are required to achieve and to maintain compliance with these environmental laws. Failure to comply with these laws could result in the closing of facilities, alterations to the manner in which these facilities operate, increased operating costs, delays and increased costs of building new facilities, or exposure to fines and liabilities.

We are subject to various environmental laws, including statutes and regulations, enforced by federal, state, and local authorities. The development and operation of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities and natural gas storage, transmission, and distribution facilities can trigger compliance obligations with respect to environmental laws. These laws address emissions, discharges to water, water intake, impacts to air, land, and water, and chemical and waste handling. Complex and lengthy processes are required to obtain and renew approvals, permits, and licenses for new, existing or modified facilities. Additionally, the use and handling of various chemicals or hazardous materials require release prevention plans and emergency response procedures. Ameren is also subject to risks from changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws.

We are also subject to liability under environmental laws that address the remediation of environmental contamination on property currently or formerly owned by us or by our predecessors, as well as property contaminated by hazardous substances that we generated. Such properties include MGP sites and third-party sites, such as landfills. Additionally, private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws against us. They could allege injury from exposure to hazardous materials, allege a failure to comply with environmental laws, seek to compel remediation of environmental contamination, or seek to recover damages resulting from that contamination.

The EPA has promulgated environmental regulations that have a significant impact on the electric utility industry. Over time, compliance with these regulations could be costly for Ameren Missouri, which operates coal-fired power plants. As of December 31, 2019, Ameren Missouri’s coal-fired energy centers represented 12% and 26% of Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s rate base, respectively. Regulations that apply to air emissions from the electric utility industry include the NSPS, the CSAPR, the MATS, and the National Ambient Air Quality Standards, which are subject to periodic review for certain pollutants. Collectively, these regulations cover a variety of pollutants, such as SO2, particulate matter, NOx, mercury, toxic metals, and acid gases, and CO2 emissions from new power plants. Water intake and discharges from power plants are regulated under the Clean Water Act. Such regulation could require modifications to water intake structures or more stringent limitations on wastewater discharges at Ameren Missouri’s energy centers, either of which could result in significant capital expenditures. The management and disposal of coal ash is regulated under the CCR rule, which will require the closure of surface impoundments and the installations of dry ash handling systems at several of Ameren Missouri’s energy centers. The individual or combined effects of existing environmental regulations could result in significant capital expenditures, increased operating costs, or the closure or alteration of operations at some of Ameren Missouri’s energy centers.

In January 2011, the Department of Justice, on behalf of the EPA, filed a complaint against Ameren Missouri in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri alleging that in performing projects at its coal-fired Rush Island Energy Center in 2007 and 2010, Ameren Missouri violated provisions of the Clean Air Act and Missouri law. In January 2017, the district court issued a liability ruling and, in September 2019, entered a final order that required Ameren Missouri to install a flue gas desulfurization system at the Rush Island Energy Center and a dry sorbent injection system at the Labadie Energy Center. There were no fines in the order. In October 2019, Ameren Missouri appealed the district court’s ruling to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. Additionally, in October 2019, following a request by Ameren Missouri, the district court stayed implementation of the majority of its order’s requirements while the case is appealed. The ultimate resolution of this matter could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial position, and liquidity of Ameren and Ameren Missouri. Among other things and subject to economic and regulatory considerations, resolution of this matter could 

18
result in increased capital expenditures for the installation of air pollution control equipment, as well as increased operations and maintenance expenses. Based upon engineering studies, capital expenditures to comply with the district court’s order for installation of a flue gas desulfurization system at the Rush Island Energy Center are estimated at approximately $1 billion. Further, the flue gas desulfurization system would result in additional operation and maintenance expenses of $30 million to $50 million annually for the life of the energy center. Engineering studies required to develop estimated capital expenditures and estimated additional operation and maintenance expenses for the Labadie Energy Center to comply with the district court’s order will not be undertaken while the case is under appeal.

In July 2019, the EPA issued the Affordable Clean Energy Rule, which establishes emission guidelines for states to follow in developing plans to limit CO2 emissions from coal-fired electric generating units. The EPA has identified certain efficiency measures as the best system of emission reduction for coal-fired electric generating units. The Affordable Clean Energy Rule went into effect on September 6, 2019. The rule requires the state of Missouri to develop a compliance plan and submit it to the EPA for approval by September 2022. The plan is expected to include a standard of performance for each affected generating unit. We are evaluating the impact of the adoption and implementation of the Affordable Clean Energy Rule and, along with other stakeholders, will be working with the state of Missouri to develop the compliance plan submitted to the EPA. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of Missouri’s compliance plan development process. As such, the impact on the results of operations, financial position, and liquidity of Ameren and Ameren Missouri is uncertain. We also cannot predict the outcome of any potential legal challenges to the rule.

Ameren and Ameren Missouri have incurred and expect to incur significant costs with respect to environmental compliance and site remediation. New or revised environmental regulations, enforcement initiatives, or legislation could result in a significant increase in capital expenditures and operating costs, decreased revenues, increased financing requirements, penalties or fines, or reduced operations of some of Ameren Missouri’s coal-fired energy centers, which, in turn, could lead to increased liquidity needs and higher financing costs. Actions required to ensure that Ameren Missouri’s facilities and operations are in compliance with environmental laws could be prohibitively expensive for Ameren Missouri if the costs are not fully recovered through rates. Environmental laws could require Ameren Missouri to close or to alter significantly the operations of its energy centers. If Ameren Missouri requests recovery of capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance through rates, the MoPSC could deny recovery of all or a portion of these costs, prevent timely recovery, or make changes to the regulatory framework in an effort to minimize rate volatility and customer rate increases. Capital expenditures and costs to comply with future legislation or regulations might result in Ameren Missouri closing coal-fired energy centers earlier than planned. If these costs are not recoverable through rates, it could lead to an impairment of assets and reduced revenues. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial positions, and liquidity.

Customers’, investors’, legislators’, and regulators’ opinions of us are affected by many factors, including system reliability, implementation of our investment plans, protection of customer information, rates, media coverage, and environmental, social, and governance practices. Negative opinions developed by customers, investors, legislators, or regulators could harm our reputation.

Service interruptions and facility shutdowns can occur due to failures of equipment as a result of severe or destructive weather or other causes. The ability of Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois to respond promptly to such failures can affect customer satisfaction. In addition to system reliability issues, the success of modernization efforts, our ability to safeguard sensitive customer information and protect our systems from cyber attacks, and other actions can affect customer satisfaction. The level of rates, the timing and magnitude of rate increases, and the volatility of rates can also affect customer satisfaction. Additionally, negative perceptions or publicity resulting from increasing scrutiny of environmental, social, and governance practices could negatively impact our reputation or investment in our common stock. Customers’, investors’, legislators’, and regulators’ opinions of us can also be affected by media coverage, including social media, which may include information, whether factual or not, that damages our brand and reputation.

If customers, investors, legislators, or regulators have or develop a negative opinion of us and our utility services, this could result in increased costs associated with regulatory oversight and could affect the ROEs we are allowed to earn, as well as the access to, and the cost of, capital. Additionally, negative opinions about us could make it more difficult for our utilities to achieve favorable legislative or regulatory outcomes. Negative opinions could also result in sales volume reductions or increased use of distributed generation by our customers. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

We are subject to federal regulatory compliance and proceedings, which could result in increasing costs and the potential for regulatory penalties and other sanctions.

We are subject to FERC regulations, rules, and orders, including standards required by the NERC. As owners and operators of bulk power transmission systems and electric energy centers, we are subject to mandatory NERC reliability standards, including cybersecurity standards. In addition, our natural gas transmission, distribution, and storage facilities systems are subject to PHMSA rules and regulations. Compliance with these reliability standards, rules, and regulations may subject us to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. We may also incur higher operating costs to comply with potential new regulations issued by these regulatory bodies. If we were found not to be in compliance with these mandatory NERC reliability standards, PHMSA rules and regulations, or FERC regulations, rules, and orders, we could incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions, which could adversely affect our results of operations, 

19
financial position, and liquidity. The FERC can impose civil penalties of approximately $1.3 million per violation per day for violation of its regulations, rules, and orders, including mandatory NERC reliability standards. The FERC also conducts audits and reviews of Ameren Missouri’s, Ameren Illinois’, and ATXI’s accounting records to assess the accuracy of its formula ratemaking process, and it can require refunds to customers for previously billed amounts, with interest.

OPERATIONAL RISKS

The construction and acquisition of, and capital improvements to, electric and natural gas utility infrastructure involve substantial risks. These risks include escalating costs; unsatisfactory performance by the projects when completed; the inability to complete projects as scheduled, which could affect the ability to qualify for some or all of the anticipated federal production or investment tax credits; cost disallowances by regulators; and the inability to earn an adequate return on invested capital. Any of these risks could result in higher costs, inability to complete anticipated projects, or facility closures.

We expect to make significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve our electric and natural gas utility infrastructure and to comply with existing environmental regulations. We estimate that we will invest up to $16.6 billion (Ameren Missouri – up to $8.4 billion; Ameren Illinois – up to $8.0 billion; ATXI – up to $0.2 billion) of capital expenditures from 2020 through 2024. These estimates include allowance for equity funds used during construction, but do not include any capital expenditures related to pollution control equipment that may be required as a result of the NSR and Clean Air Act litigation. Investments in Ameren’s rate-regulated operations are expected to be recoverable from customers, but they are subject to prudence reviews and are exposed to regulatory lag of varying degrees by jurisdiction.

Our ability to complete construction projects successfully within projected estimates and to acquire wind generation facilities after they are constructed is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks. These variables include, but are not limited to, project management expertise, escalating costs for labor and materials, including changes to tariffs on materials, reliance on third parties, the ability to obtain required project approvals, and the ability to obtain necessary rights-of-way, easements, and transmission connections. The schedule, performance, and/or cost, including qualifying for federal production or investment tax credits, of these projects can be affected by many factors. These factors include delays in obtaining permits or regulatory approvals; shortages in materials, equipment, and qualified labor; suppliers and contractors who do not perform as required under their contracts; changes in the scope and timing of projects; the inability to raise capital on reasonable terms; or other events beyond our control, including construction delays due to weather. In February 2020, the developers of the wind generation facilities, to be acquired by Ameren Missouri after construction, received notice from the wind turbine supplier of potential disruptions in its manufacturing, transport, and/or import/export activities resulting from the international public health emergency associated with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). The developers notified Ameren Missouri that their performance might be delayed as a result. At this time, Ameren Missouri and the developers are unable to estimate the impact to each project, including the project schedule and contracted megawatts. Additionally, we are evaluating the impact of this international public health emergency on our supply chains.

There is a risk that an energy center might not be permitted to continue to operate if pollution control equipment is not installed by prescribed deadlines or does not perform as expected. Should any such pollution control equipment not be installed on time or not perform as expected, Ameren Missouri could be subject to additional costs and to the loss of its investment in the project or facility. 

All of these project and construction risks could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities are subject to operational risks.

Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. Operation of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities involves many risks, including:

•facility shutdowns due to operator error, or a failure of equipment or processes;

•longer-than-anticipated maintenance outages;

•failures of equipment that can result in unanticipated liabilities or unplanned outages;

•aging infrastructure that may require significant expenditures to operate and maintain;

•lack of adequate water required for cooling plant operations;

•labor disputes;

•disruptions in the delivery of electricity to our customers;

•suppliers and contractors who do not perform as required under their contracts;

•failure of other operators’ facilities and the effect of that failure on our electric system and customers;

•inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements, including those relating to environmental laws;

•handling, storage, and disposition of CCR;

•unusual or adverse weather conditions or other natural disasters, including severe storms, droughts, floods, tornadoes, earthquakes, sustained high temperatures, solar flares, and electromagnetic pulses;

20
•the occurrence of catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, acts of sabotage or terrorism, pandemic health events, or other similar events;

•accidents that might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage, or environmental damage;

•ineffective vegetation management programs;

•cybersecurity risks, including loss of operational control of Ameren Missouri’s energy centers and our transmission and distribution systems and loss of data, including sensitive customer, employee, financial, and operating system information, through insider or outsider actions;

•limitations on amounts of insurance available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operating our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities;

•inability to implement or maintain information systems;

•failure to keep pace with and the ability to adapt to rapid technological change; and

•other unanticipated operations and maintenance expenses and liabilities.

The foregoing risks could affect the controls and operations of our facilities or impede our ability to meet regulatory requirements, which could increase operating costs, increase our capital requirements and costs, reduce our revenues or have an adverse effect on our liquidity.

Ameren Missouri’s ability to obtain an adequate supply of coal could limit operation of its coal-fired energy centers.

Ameren Missouri owns and operates coal-fired energy centers. About 97% of Ameren Missouri’s coal is purchased from the Powder River Basin in Wyoming, which has a limited number of suppliers. Deliveries from the Powder River Basin have occasionally been restricted because of rail congestion and maintenance, derailments, weather, and supplier financial hardship. Coal suppliers in the Power River Basin are experiencing financial hardship because of a decrease in demand resulting from increased natural gas and renewable energy generation, and the impact of environmental regulations, as well as concerns related to coal-fired generation. These financial hardships have resulted in bankruptcy filings by certain coal suppliers in recent years. As of December 31, 2019, coal inventories for Ameren Missouri were near targeted levels. However, disruptions in the delivery of coal, failure of our coal suppliers to provide adequate quantities or quality of coal, or lack of adequate inventories of coal, including low-sulfur coal used to comply with environmental regulations, could have adverse effects on Ameren Missouri’s electric generation operations. If Ameren Missouri is unable to obtain an adequate supply of coal under existing agreements, it may be required to purchase coal at higher prices or be forced to reduce generation at its coal-fired energy centers, which could adversely affect Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. 

Ameren Missouri’s ownership and operation of a nuclear energy center creates business, financial, and waste disposal risks.

Ameren Missouri’s ownership of the Callaway Energy Center subjects it to risks associated with nuclear generation, including:

•potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from radiological releases associated with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive materials;

•continued uncertainty regarding the federal government’s plan to permanently store spent nuclear fuel and, as a result, the need to provide for long-term storage of spent nuclear fuel at the Callaway Energy Center;

•limitations on the amounts and types of insurance available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the Callaway Energy Center or other United States nuclear facilities;

•uncertainties about contingencies and retrospective premium assessments relating to claims at the Callaway Energy Center or any other United States nuclear facilities;

•public and governmental concerns about the safety and adequacy of security at nuclear facilities;

•limited availability of fuel supply and our reliance on licensed fuel assemblies from the one NRC-licensed supplier of Callaway Energy Center’s assemblies;

•costly and extended outages for scheduled or unscheduled maintenance and refueling;

•uncertainties about the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear facilities at the end of their licensed lives;

•the adverse effect of poor market performance and other economic factors on the asset values of nuclear decommissioning trust funds and the corresponding increase, upon MoPSC approval, in customer rates to fund the estimated decommissioning costs; and

•potential adverse effects of a natural disaster, acts of sabotage or terrorism, including a cyber attack, or any accident leading to a radiological release.

The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety requirements for nuclear facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or to shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated from time to time by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at the Callaway Energy Center. In addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could adversely affect Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation of any domestic nuclear unit and could also cause the NRC to impose additional conditions or requirements on the industry, which could increase costs and result in additional capital expenditures. NRC standards 

21
relating to seismic risk require Ameren Missouri to further evaluate the impact of an earthquake on its Callaway Energy Center due to its proximity to a fault line, which could require the installation of additional capital equipment.

Our natural gas distribution and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and increased operating costs.

Inherent in our natural gas distribution and storage activities are a variety of hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, explosions, mechanical problems and cybersecurity risks, which could cause substantial financial losses, including fines and penalties. In addition, these hazards could result in serious injury, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental impacts, and impairment of our operations, which in turn could lead us to incur substantial losses. The location of distribution mains and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, business centers, industrial sites, and other public gathering places, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. A major domestic incident involving natural gas distribution and storage systems could result in additional capital expenditures for us and increased regulation of natural gas utilities. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Significant portions of our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities and natural gas transmission and distribution facilities are aging. This aging infrastructure may require significant additional maintenance or replacement. Ameren Missouri could be adversely affected if it is unable to recover the remaining investment, if any, and decommissioning costs associated with the retirement of an energy center, as well as the ability to earn a return on that remaining investment and those decommissioning costs.

Our aging infrastructure may pose risks to system reliability and expose us to expedited or unplanned significant capital expenditures and operating costs. All of Ameren Missouri’s coal-fired energy centers were constructed prior to 1978, and the Callaway Energy Center began operating in 1984. The age of these energy centers increases the risks of unplanned outages, reduced generation output, and higher maintenance expense. Further, Ameren Missouri may be adversely affected if the MoPSC does not allow recovery of the remaining investment, if any, and decommissioning costs associated with the retirement of an energy center, as well as the ability to earn a return on that remaining investment and those decommissioning costs. Aging transmission and distribution facilities are more prone to failure than new facilities, which results in higher maintenance expense and the need to replace these facilities with new infrastructure. Even if the system is properly maintained, its reliability may ultimately deteriorate and negatively affect our ability to serve our customers, which could result in increased costs associated with regulatory oversight. The frequency and duration of customer outages are among the IEIMA performance standards. Any failure to achieve these standards will result in a reduction in Ameren Illinois’ allowed ROE on electric distribution assets. The higher maintenance costs associated with aging infrastructure and capital expenditures for new or replacement infrastructure could cause additional rate volatility for our customers, resistance by our regulators to allow customer rate increases, and/or regulatory lag in some of our jurisdictions, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Energy conservation, energy efficiency, distributed generation, energy storage, technological advances, and other factors could reduce energy demand from Ameren Missouri’s customers.

Without a regulatory mechanism to ensure recovery, declines in energy usage could result in an under-recovery of Ameren Missouri’s revenue requirement, which could adversely affect Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Such declines could occur due to a number of factors:

•Conservation and energy-efficiency programs. Missouri allows for conservation and energy-efficiency programs that are designed to reduce energy demand.

•Distributed generation and other energy-efficiency efforts. Ameren Missouri is exposed to declining usage from energy-efficiency efforts not related to its energy-efficiency programs, as well as from distributed generation sources, such as solar panels and other technologies. Ameren Missouri generates power at utility-scale energy centers to achieve economies of scale. Some distributed generation technologies have become more cost-competitive, with decreasing costs expected in the future. The costs of these distributed generation technologies may decline over time to a level that is competitive with that of Ameren Missouri’s energy centers. Additionally, technological advances in energy storage may be coupled with distributed generation to reduce the demand for our electric utility services. Increased adoption of these technologies by customers could decrease our revenues if customers cease to use our generation, transmission, and distribution services at current levels. Ameren Missouri might incur stranded costs, which ultimately might not be recovered through rates.

•Macroeconomic factors. Macroeconomic factors resulting in low economic growth or contraction within Ameren Missouri’s service territories could reduce energy demand.

We are subject to employee work force factors that could adversely affect our operations.

Our businesses depend upon our ability to employ and retain key officers and other skilled professional and technical employees. Certain specialized knowledge is required to construct and operate generation, transmission, and distribution assets. Further, a significant 

22
portion of our work force is nearing retirement. We are also party to collective bargaining agreements that collectively represent about 50% of Ameren’s total employees. Certain events, such as an aging workforce without adequately trained replacement employees, the mismatch of skill sets or complement to future needs, or any work stoppage experienced in connection with negotiations of collective bargaining agreements, could adversely affect our operations.

Our operations are subject to acts of terrorism, cyber attacks, and other intentionally disruptive acts.

Like other electric and natural gas utilities, our energy centers, fuel storage facilities, transmission and distribution facilities, and information systems may be affected by terrorist activities and other intentionally disruptive acts, including cyber attacks, which could disrupt our ability to produce or distribute our energy products. There have been attacks on energy infrastructure, such as substations and related assets, in the past, and there may be more attacks in the future. Any such incident could limit our ability to generate, purchase, or transmit power or natural gas and could have significant regional economic consequences. Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues, a significant increase in costs including those for repair, or adversely affect economic activity in our service territory which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

There has been an increase in the number and sophistication of cyber attacks across all industries worldwide. A security breach at our physical assets or in our information systems could affect the reliability of the transmission and distribution system, disrupt electric generation, including nuclear generation, and/or subject us to financial harm resulting from theft or the inappropriate release of certain types of information, including sensitive customer, employee, financial, and operating system information. Many of our suppliers, vendors, contractors, and information technology providers have access to systems that support our operations and maintain customer and employee data. A breach of these third-party systems could adversely affect our business as if it was a breach of our own system. If a significant breach occurred, our reputation could be adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, and/or we could be subject to increased costs associated with regulatory oversight, fines or legal claims, any of which could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant costs for remedying the impacts of such a breach. Our generation, transmission, and distribution systems are part of an interconnected system. Therefore, a disruption caused by a cyber incident at another utility, electric generator, RTO, or commodity supplier could also adversely affect our businesses. Insurance might not be adequate to cover losses that arise in connection with these events. In addition, new regulations could require changes in our security measures and result in increased costs. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

FINANCIAL, ECONOMIC, AND MARKET RISKS

Our businesses are dependent on our ability to access the capital markets successfully. We might not have access to sufficient capital in the amounts and at the times needed, as well as on reasonable terms.

We rely on the issuance of short-term and long-term debt and equity as significant sources of liquidity and funding for capital requirements not satisfied by our operating cash flow, as well as to refinance existing long-term debt. The inability to raise debt or equity capital on reasonable terms, or at all, could negatively affect our ability to maintain and to expand our businesses. Events beyond our control, such as depressed economic conditions or extreme volatility in the debt, equity, or credit markets, might create uncertainty that could increase our cost of capital or impair or eliminate our ability to access the debt, equity, or credit markets, including our ability to draw on bank credit facilities. Any adverse change in our credit ratings could reduce access to capital and trigger collateral postings and prepayments. Such changes could also increase the cost of borrowing and the costs of fuel, power, and natural gas supply, among other things, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Ameren’s holding company structure could limit its ability to pay common stock dividends and to service its debt obligations.

Ameren is a holding company; therefore, its primary assets are its investments in the common stock of its subsidiaries, including Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI. As a result, Ameren’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the earnings of its subsidiaries and the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer funds to Ameren. Similarly, Ameren’s ability to service its debt obligations is dependent upon the earnings of its operating subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings and other payments, including payments of principal and interest under affiliate indebtedness. The payment of dividends to Ameren by its subsidiaries in turn depends on their results of operations, and other items affecting retained earnings, and available cash. Ameren’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any dividends or make any other distributions (except for payments required pursuant to the terms of affiliate borrowing arrangements and cash payments under the tax allocation agreement) to Ameren. Certain financing agreements, corporate organizational documents, and certain statutory and regulatory requirements may impose restrictions on the ability of Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI to transfer funds to Ameren in the form of cash dividends, loans, or advances.

23
Costs associated with our defined benefit retirement and postretirement plans, health care plans, and other employee benefits could increase.

Ameren offers defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans covering substantially all of its union employees. Ameren offers defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of its non-union employees and postretirement benefit plans covering non-union employees hired before October 2015. Assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates, timing of employee retirements, and mortality, as well as other actuarial matters, have a significant impact on our customers’ rates and our plan funding requirements. Ameren’s total unfunded obligation under its pension and postretirement benefit plans was $216 million as of December 31, 2019. Ameren expects to fund its pension plans at a level equal to the greater of the pension cost or the legally required minimum contribution. Based on Ameren’s assumptions at December 31, 2019, its investment performance in 2019, and its pension funding policy, Ameren expects to make annual contributions of up to approximately $45 million in each of the next five years, with aggregate estimated contributions of $70 million. Ameren Missouri’s and Ameren Illinois’ portions of the future funding requirements are estimated to be 30% and 60%, respectively. These estimates may change with actual investment performance, changes in interest rates, changes in our assumptions, changes in government regulations, and any voluntary contributions.

In addition to the costs of our pension plans, the costs of providing health care benefits to our employees and retirees have increased in recent years. We believe that our employee benefit costs, including costs of health care plans for our employees and former employees, will continue to rise. Future legislative changes related to health care could also significantly change our benefit programs and costs. The increasing costs and funding requirements associated with our defined benefit retirement plans, health care plans, and other employee benefits could increase our financing needs and otherwise adversely affect our financial position and liquidity.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

24
ITEM 2.PROPERTIES