ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Part I, including matters set forth in the “Risk Factors” section of this Form 10-K, and our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This section of this Form 10-K includes discussion of year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018. Discussion of year-to-year comparisons between 2018 and 2017 can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. 

Except to the extent that differences among reportable segments are material to an understanding of our business taken as a whole, we present the discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on a consolidated basis.

Overview

AutoNation, Inc., through its subsidiaries, is the largest automotive retailer in the United States. As of December 31, 2019, we owned and operated 317 new vehicle franchises from 231 stores located in the United States, predominantly in major metropolitan markets in the Sunbelt region. Our stores, which we believe include some of the most recognizable and well known in our key markets, sell 32 different new vehicle brands. The core brands of new vehicles that we sell, representing approximately 92% of the new vehicles that we sold in 2019, are manufactured by Toyota (including Lexus), Honda, Ford, General Motors, FCA US, Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Volkswagen (including Audi and Porsche), and Nissan. As of December 31, 2019, we also owned and operated 81 AutoNation-branded collision centers, 5 AutoNation USA stores, 4 automotive auction operations, and 17 parts distribution centers.

We offer a diversified range of automotive products and services, including new vehicles, used vehicles, “parts and service” (also referred to as “Customer Care”), which includes automotive repair and maintenance services as well as wholesale parts and collision businesses, and automotive “finance and insurance” products (also referred to as “Customer Financial Services”), which include vehicle service and other protection products, as well as the arranging of financing for vehicle purchases through third-party finance sources. 

As of December 31, 2019, we had three reportable segments: Domestic, Import, and Premium Luxury. Our Domestic segment is comprised of retail automotive franchises that sell new vehicles manufactured by General Motors, Ford, and FCA US. Our Import segment is comprised of retail automotive franchises that sell new vehicles manufactured primarily by Toyota, Honda, and Nissan. Our Premium Luxury segment is comprised of retail automotive franchises that sell new vehicles manufactured primarily by Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Audi, Lexus, and Jaguar Land Rover. The franchises in each segment also sell used vehicles, parts and automotive repair and maintenance services, and automotive finance and insurance products.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, new vehicle sales accounted for approximately 52% of our total revenue and approximately 14% of our total gross profit. Used vehicle sales accounted for approximately 26% of our total revenue and approximately 10% of our total gross profit. Our parts and service and finance and insurance operations, while comprising approximately 22% of total revenue, contributed approximately 75% of our gross profit.

Market Conditions

Full-year U.S. industry new and used combined vehicle unit sales were approximately 57 million in 2019, which was relatively flat compared to 2018 levels. Low unemployment and three interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve in 2019 have supported consumer demand. Rising new vehicle prices have put pressure on industry retail new vehicle unit sales and shifted consumer demand towards more affordable used vehicles. Based on industry data, vehicle leasing and manufacturer incentives remain at historically-high levels. To the extent that vehicle manufacturers reduce their support for these programs, U.S. industry and our new vehicle unit retail sales could be adversely impacted. We currently expect that full-year U.S. industry new and used combined vehicle unit sales will remain relatively stable. However, actual sales may materially differ. 

 25
Results of Operations

We had net income from continuing operations of $450.8 million and diluted earnings per share of $4.98 in 2019, as compared to net income from continuing operations of $395.9 million and diluted earnings per share of $4.34 in 2018.

Our used vehicle gross profit increased 8%, our parts and service gross profit increased 4%, and our finance and insurance gross profit increased 4%, each as compared to 2018. Used vehicle gross profit benefited from an increase in used vehicle unit volume due to shifting dynamics in the used vehicle market. Finance and insurance gross profit and parts and service gross profit benefited from our brand extension strategy. In addition, new vehicle gross profit per vehicle retailed (“PVR”) and finance and insurance gross profit PVR increased as compared to 2018. Improvements to gross profit during 2019 were partially offset by a decrease in new vehicle unit volume as we focused on balancing new vehicle gross profit PVR and unit volume. In addition, SG&A expenses increased, as compared to 2018, due to a performance-driven increase in compensation expense and severance and other related expenses we recognized in connection with the separation of an executive during the third quarter of 2019, partially offset by a decrease in restructuring expenses.

Net income from continuing operations benefited from net after-tax gains related to store/property divestitures of $34.4 million in 2019 and $43.7 million in 2018, and after-tax gains related to legal settlements of $5.7 million in 2019 and $8.7 million in 2018. 

Chief Financial Officer Appointment

On November 18, 2019, our Board of Directors appointed Joseph Lower as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of AutoNation, effective as of January 13, 2020. Please refer to “Information about our Executive Officers” in Part I, Item 1, for additional information regarding Mr. Lower.

Strategic Initiatives

We continue to build upon our comprehensive, customer-focused brand extension strategy, which includes AutoNation-branded parts and accessories, AutoNation-branded Customer Financial Services products (including extended service and maintenance contracts and other vehicle protection products), AutoNation-branded collision centers, AutoNation-branded automotive auctions, AutoNation USA stand-alone used vehicle sales and service centers, and our parts distribution network. 

We continue to evaluate potential strategic investment and partnership opportunities that will further enhance our ability to adapt to changing customer behavior and expectations, such as our minority investment in Vroom Inc. and our partnership with Waymo. 

Inventory Management

Our new and used vehicle inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We monitor our vehicle inventory levels based on current economic conditions and seasonal sales trends.

We have typically not experienced significant losses on the sale of new vehicle inventory, in part due to incentives provided by manufacturers to promote sales of new vehicles and our inventory management practices. We monitor our new vehicle inventory values as compared to net realizable values, and had no new vehicle inventory write-downs at December 31, 2019. Our new vehicle inventory balance was net of cumulative write-downs of $0.5 million at December 31, 2018.

We recondition the majority of used vehicles acquired for retail sale in our parts and service departments and capitalize the related costs to the used vehicle inventory. We monitor our used vehicle inventory values as compared to net realizable values. Typically, used vehicles that are not sold on a retail basis are sold at wholesale auctions. Our used vehicle inventory balance was net of cumulative write-downs of $3.2 million at December 31, 2019, and $3.2 million at December 31, 2018.

Parts, accessories, and other inventory are carried at the lower of acquisition cost or net realizable value. We estimate the amount of potentially damaged and/or obsolete inventory based upon historical experience, manufacturer return policies, and industry trends. Our parts, accessories, and other inventory balance was net of cumulative write-downs of $11.1 million at December 31, 2019, and $6.4 million at December 31, 2018.

 26
Critical Accounting Estimates

We prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis and we base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable. Actual outcomes could differ materially from those estimates in a manner that could have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Set forth below are the accounting estimates that we have identified as critical to our business operations and an understanding of our results of operations, based on the high degree of judgment or complexity in their application. See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of other significant accounting policies.

Goodwill 

Goodwill for our reporting units is tested for impairment annually on April 30 or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. As permitted within the accounting standards, we chose to make a qualitative evaluation about the likelihood of goodwill impairment as of April 30, 2019, for our Domestic, Import, and Premium Luxury reporting units, and we determined that it was not more likely than not that the fair values of these reporting units were less than their carrying amounts. We elected to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test for our Collision Center and Parts Center reporting units as of April 30, 2019, and no impairment charges resulted from the impairment test.

The quantitative goodwill impairment test is dependent on many variables used to determine the fair value of our reporting units. See Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on how the fair values and carrying values of our reporting units are derived for the quantitative goodwill impairment test.

As of December 31, 2019, we have $227.3 million of goodwill related to the Domestic reporting unit, $498.9 million related to the Import reporting unit, $714.9 million related to the Premium Luxury reporting unit, $41.7 million related to the Collision Center reporting unit, and $19.1 million related to the Parts Center reporting unit.

Other Intangible Assets

Our principal identifiable intangible assets are individual store rights under franchise agreements with vehicle manufacturers, which have indefinite lives and are tested for impairment annually on April 30 or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. 

Our franchise rights, which related to 66 stores and totaled $580.1 million at April 30, 2019, are evaluated for impairment on a franchise-by-franchise basis annually. We performed quantitative franchise rights impairment tests as of April 30, 2019. As a result of the quantitative tests, we identified 6 stores with franchise rights carrying values that exceeded their fair values, and we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $9.6 million. We identified 10 additional stores that, while they each had franchise rights fair value in excess of carrying value, had lower relative performance compared to our total store population. We divested one of these stores subsequent to April 30, 2019, and we will continue to monitor the remaining 9 stores, as well as all stores, for events or changes in circumstances that may indicate potential impairment. The remainder of our stores had franchise rights with calculated fair values that substantially exceeded their carrying values. The quantitative franchise rights impairment test is dependent on many variables used to determine the fair value of each store’s franchise rights. See Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the valuation method and related estimates and assumptions used in our quantitative impairment testing. Based on a sensitivity analysis of these estimates and assumptions, which is not intended to provide a sensitivity analysis of every potential outcome, the hypothetical additional aggregate pre-tax non-cash impairment charge would have been between $1 million and $3 million. 

 27
Reported Operating Data

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 28
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 29
Same Store Operating Data

We have presented below our operating results on a same store basis to reflect our internal performance. The “Same Store” amounts presented below include the results of our stores for the identical months in each period presented in the comparison, commencing with the first full month in which the store was owned by us. Results from divested stores are excluded from both current and prior periods. Therefore, the amounts presented in the year 2018 column that is being compared to the year 2019 column may differ from the amounts presented in the year 2018 column that is being compared to the year 2017 column. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 30
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 31
New Vehicle

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following discussion of new vehicle results is on a same store basis. The difference between reported amounts and same store amounts in the above tables of $258.1 million, $384.8 million, and $419.5 million in new vehicle revenue and $9.2 million, $9.2 million, and $15.0 million in new vehicle gross profit for 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively, is related to acquisition and divestiture activity, as well as new add-point openings. 

2019 compared to 2018 

Same store new vehicle revenue decreased during 2019, as compared to 2018, due to a decrease in same store unit volume, partially offset by an increase in revenue PVR. Same store unit volume declined as we continued to focus on balancing gross profit PVRs and unit volume. In addition, same store unit volume decreased due to overall competitive market conditions in a weaker retail new vehicle sales environment and historically elevated levels in off-lease supply of late-model used vehicles. 

Same store revenue PVR increased during 2019, as compared to 2018, due to an increase in revenue PVR for all three segments as a result of increases in the manufacturers’ suggested retail prices. Same store revenue PVR also increased due to a shift in mix toward Premium Luxury vehicles and trucks and sport utility vehicles, all of which have relatively higher average selling prices. The shift in mix toward trucks and sports utility vehicles is due to a combination of improved vehicle fuel efficiency, relatively low average fuel prices, and changing consumer preference. 

Same store gross profit PVR increased during 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, as we focused on balancing gross profit PVRs and unit volume. Same store gross profit PVR also benefited from a shift in mix toward Premium Luxury vehicles, which have relatively higher average gross profit PVRs. 

 32
Net New Vehicle Inventory Carrying Benefit (Cost)

The following table details net new vehicle inventory carrying benefit (cost), consisting of new vehicle floorplan interest expense net of floorplan assistance earned (amounts received from manufacturers specifically to support store financing of new vehicle inventory). Floorplan assistance is accounted for as a component of new vehicle gross profit in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 compared to 2018 

The net new vehicle inventory carrying cost increased in 2019, as compared to 2018, due to an increase in floorplan interest expense and a decrease in floorplan assistance. Floorplan interest expense increased due to higher average interest rates for the full year. Floorplan interest rates are variable and therefore increase and decrease with changes in the underlying benchmark interest rates. Our floorplan interest expense in the second half of 2019 benefited from the three interest rate cuts made by the Federal Reserve in the third and fourth quarters of 2019. Floorplan assistance decreased due to lower new vehicle unit sales, partially offset by an increase in the average floorplan assistance rate per unit. 

 33
Used Vehicle

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following discussion of used vehicle results is on a same store basis. The difference between reported amounts and same store amounts in the above tables of $119.7 million, $158.3 million, and $179.3 million in retail used vehicle revenue and $5.0 million, $7.4 million, and $11.3 million in retail used vehicle gross profit for 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively, is related to acquisition and divestiture activity, as well as the opening of new add-points, AutoNation USA stores, and automotive auctions. 

2019 compared to 2018 

Same store retail used vehicle revenue increased during 2019, as compared to 2018, due to increases in same store unit volume and revenue PVR. The increase in same store unit volume is due to an increase in market demand for used vehicles, due in part to increased affordability compared to new vehicles and shifting dynamics in the used vehicle market. With the continued elevated levels in off-lease supply of late-model used vehicles, the average age and mileage of used vehicles in the market has decreased, which has provided wider availability of in-demand technology features on used vehicles, resulting in reduced disparity between used vehicles and new vehicles.

 34
Same store revenue PVR increased during 2019, as compared to 2018, due in part to historically elevated levels in off-lease supply of late-model used vehicles and a shift in mix toward trucks and sports utility vehicles, both of which have relatively higher average selling prices. The shift in mix toward trucks and sport utility vehicles is due to a combination of improved vehicle fuel efficiency, relatively low average fuel prices, and changing consumer preference. The increase in same store revenue PVR was partially offset by a shift in mix toward Import vehicles, which have relatively lower average selling prices.

Same store gross profit PVR was relatively flat during 2019, as compared to 2018. 

 35
Parts & Service

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Parts and service revenue is primarily derived from vehicle repairs paid directly by customers or via reimbursement from manufacturers and others under warranty programs, as well as from wholesale parts sales and collision services. 

The following discussion of parts and service is on a same store basis. The difference between reported amounts and same store amounts in the above tables of $92.5 million, $112.6 million, and $109.6 million in parts and service revenue and $42.4 million, $51.5 million, and $48.8 million in parts and service gross profit for 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively, is related to acquisition and divestiture activity, as well as the opening of new add-points, AutoNation USA stores, and collision centers. 

2019 compared to 2018 

During 2019, same store parts and service gross profit increased as compared to 2018, primarily due to increases in gross profit associated with customer-pay service of $38.0 million, warranty service of $17.7 million, wholesale parts sales of $8.8 million, and the preparation of vehicles for sale of $7.3 million. 

Customer-pay service gross profit benefited from higher value customer-pay repair orders, an increase in volume, our parts initiatives, and price increases. Warranty service gross profit benefited from improved margin performance largely due to improved parts and labor rates negotiated with certain manufacturers. Gross profit from wholesale parts sales increased largely due to our brand extension strategy. Gross profit associated with the preparation of vehicles for sale benefited from higher used vehicle unit volume. 

 36
Finance and Insurance

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue on finance and insurance products represents commissions earned by us for the placement of: (i) loans and leases with financial institutions in connection with customer vehicle purchases financed, (ii) vehicle service contracts with third-party providers, and (iii) other vehicle protection products with third-party providers. We sell these products on a commission basis, and we also participate in the future underwriting profit on certain products pursuant to retrospective commission arrangements with the issuers of those products.

The following discussion of finance and insurance results is on a same store basis. The difference between reported amounts and same store amounts in finance and insurance revenue and gross profit in the above tables of $18.8 million, $27.7 million, and $27.5 million for 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively, is related to acquisition and divestiture activity, as well as the opening of new add-points and AutoNation USA stores. 

2019 compared to 2018 

Same store finance and insurance revenue and gross profit increased during 2019, as compared to 2018, primarily due to an increase in finance and insurance gross profit PVR, partially offset by a decrease in new vehicle unit volume. The increase in finance and insurance gross profit PVR was primarily due to higher realized margins on vehicle service contracts, including our AutoNation Vehicle Protection Plan product, and an increase in product penetration. Finance and insurance gross profit PVR also benefited from higher realized margins on arranged customer financing and an increase in amounts financed per transaction. 

Increases in finance and insurance gross profit PVR were partially offset by a shift in unit volume mix from new vehicles to used vehicles, which have lower average selling prices than new vehicles and therefore typically generate lower gross profit per transaction associated with arranging customer financing. Sales of used vehicles also have lower finance and product penetration as compared to sales of new vehicles. Finance and insurance gross profit PVR was also adversely impacted by a decrease in retrospective commissions due in part to higher claim activity. We expect retrospective commissions to continue to decrease as compared to recent years.

 37
Segment Results

In the following table of financial data, revenue and segment income of our reportable segments are reconciled to consolidated revenue and consolidated operating income, respectively.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 38
Domestic

The Domestic segment operating results included the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 compared to 2018 

Domestic revenue decreased during 2019, as compared to 2018, primarily due to a decrease in new vehicle unit volume, a realignment of certain parts distribution centers, and the divestitures we completed in 2018 and 2019, partially offset by an increase in new vehicle revenue PVR. The decrease in new vehicle unit volume was primarily due to overall competitive market conditions in a weaker new vehicle sales environment and historically elevated levels in off-lease supply of late-model used vehicles. The increase in new vehicle revenue PVR was due in part to a shift in mix toward trucks and sport utility vehicles, which have relatively higher average selling prices, as a result of a combination of improved vehicle fuel efficiency, relatively low average fuel prices, and changing consumer preference. New vehicle average selling prices also increased as a result of increases in the manufacturers’ suggested retail prices. 

Domestic segment income increased during 2019, as compared to 2018, primarily due to an increase in parts and service gross profit associated with customer-pay service and warranty, an increase in finance and insurance revenue and gross profit, which benefited from higher realized margins on vehicle service contracts and an increase in product penetration, and a decrease in SG&A expenses. Increases in Domestic segment income were partially offset by a decrease in new vehicle gross profit resulting from decreases in new vehicle unit volume and new vehicle gross profit PVR impacted by the competitive market conditions discussed above. 

 39
Import

The Import segment operating results included the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 compared to 2018 

Import revenue decreased during 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in new vehicle unit volume and the divestitures we completed in 2018 and 2019, partially offset by increases in used vehicle unit volume and used vehicle revenue PVR. The decrease in new vehicle unit volume was primarily due to overall competitive market conditions in a weaker new vehicle sales environment and historically elevated levels in off-lease supply of late-model used vehicles. Used vehicle unit volume increased as a result of an increase in market demand for used vehicles, due in part to increased affordability compared to new vehicles and shifting dynamics in the used vehicle market that have reduced the disparity between used and new vehicles. Used vehicle revenue PVR increased due in part to historically elevated levels in off-lease supply of late-model used vehicles and a shift in mix toward trucks and sport utility vehicles, both of which have relatively higher average selling prices. The shift in mix toward trucks and sport utility vehicles is due to a combination of improved vehicle fuel efficiency, relatively low average fuel prices, and changing consumer preference. 

Import segment income increased during 2019, as compared to 2018, primarily due to an increase in finance and insurance revenue and gross profit, which benefited from higher realized margins on vehicle service contracts and an increase in product penetration, and an increase in parts and service gross profit associated with customer-pay service and warranty. Increases in Import segment income were partially offset by an increase in SG&A expenses, a decrease in new vehicle gross profit due to the decrease in new vehicle unit volume discussed above, and the divestitures we completed in 2018 and 2019. 

 40
Premium Luxury

The Premium Luxury segment operating results included the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 compared to 2018 

Premium Luxury revenue increased during 2019, as compared to 2018, primarily due to increases in new and used vehicle revenue PVR and used vehicle unit volume and the acquisition and new add-point openings completed in 2018 and 2019. New vehicle revenue PVR increased due to increases in the manufacturers’ suggested retail prices. Used vehicle revenue PVR increased due in part to a shift in mix toward sport utility vehicles, which have relatively higher average selling prices, as a result of a combination of improved vehicle fuel efficiency, relatively low average fuel prices, and changing consumer preference. The increase in used vehicle unit volume resulted from an increase in market demand for used vehicles, due in part to increased affordability compared to new vehicles and shifting dynamics in the used vehicle market that have reduced the disparity between used and new vehicles. 

Premium Luxury segment income increased during 2019, as compared to 2018, primarily due to increases in parts and service gross profit associated with customer-pay service and warranty and finance and insurance revenue and gross profit, which benefited from higher realized margins on vehicle service contracts and an increase in product penetration. Premium Luxury segment income also benefited from an increase in new vehicle gross profit PVR as we focused on balancing gross profit PVRs and unit volume, as well as due to several recent product refreshes and new product offerings by Premium Luxury manufacturers. Increases in Premium Luxury segment income were partially offset by an increase in SG&A expenses, due in part to the acquisition and new add-point openings discussed above. 

 41
Corporate and other

Corporate and other results included the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

“Corporate and other” is comprised of our other businesses, including collision centers, auction operations, AutoNation USA stand-alone used vehicle sales and service centers, and parts distribution centers, all of which generate revenues but do not meet the quantitative thresholds for determining reportable segments, as well as unallocated corporate overhead expenses and other income items.

As of December 31, 2019, we had 81 AutoNation-branded collision centers, 4 AutoNation-branded auction operations, and 5 AutoNation USA stand-alone used vehicle sales and service centers. We also had 6 parts distribution centers that service our wholesale parts sales markets for the sale of original equipment manufacturer parts. Additionally, we directly source and distribute retail and wholesale parts for sale to our customers and other dealerships and collision centers through our 11 operational AutoNation aftermarket collision parts distribution centers. 

Our aftermarket collision parts business was established in 2018 and is still in its development and expansion phase. As of December 31, 2019, our aftermarket collision parts distribution centers as a group were not yet profitable and had approximately $36 million of parts inventory. We have invested approximately $14 million in our aftermarket parts distribution centers for equipment, information systems, and other intangible assets. Several of our aftermarket parts distribution centers are operated under a multi-year logistics agreement with a third party. This agreement is subject to a declining early termination penalty, which is estimated to be approximately $16 million as of December 31, 2019. We also lease facilities for certain of the aftermarket collision parts distribution centers with right-of-use assets of approximately $6 million and remaining lease payments through the various lease terms of approximately $9 million as of December 31, 2019. Although we believe our aftermarket collision parts business will be profitable over time, we can make no such assurance.

We expect to continue to focus on our parts distribution network to support our national wholesale footprint and create more opportunities to offer both original manufacturer and AutoNation aftermarket collision parts to our customers. 

 42
Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses

Our SG&A expenses consist primarily of compensation, including store and corporate salaries, commissions, and incentive-based compensation, as well as advertising (net of reimbursement-based manufacturer advertising rebates), and store and corporate overhead expenses, which include occupancy costs, legal, accounting, and professional services, and general corporate expenses. The following table presents the major components of our SG&A.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 compared to 2018 

SG&A expenses increased in 2019, as compared to 2018, primarily due to a performance-driven increase in compensation expense and severance and other related expenses we recognized in connection with the separation of an executive during the third quarter of 2019, partially offset by a decrease in restructuring expenses. Gross advertising expenses decreased $16.3 million, partially offset by a decrease in advertising reimbursements from manufacturers of $6.3 million. Store and corporate overhead expenses decreased primarily due to a decrease in certain expenses incurred in the prior year related to our brand extension strategy, decreases in costs associated with our self-insurance programs, including lower hail-related losses and more favorable claims experience, and our cost savings efforts made in connection with our restructuring and cost savings plan announced in January 2019. As a percentage of total gross profit, SG&A expenses decreased to 72.6% in 2019 from 73.9% in 2018, primarily due to improvements in gross profit PVRs and effective cost management. 

Other Income, Net (included in Operating Income) 

During 2019, we recognized net gains of $45.4 million primarily related to store/property divestitures, and $7.5 million related to certain legal settlements. These gains were partially offset by non-cash asset impairments of $2.2 million. 

During 2018, we recognized net gains of $57.6 million primarily related to store/property divestitures and gains of $11.5 million related to certain legal settlements. These gains were partially offset by non-cash asset impairments of $3.2 million.

Franchise Rights Impairment

We recorded non-cash impairment charges of $9.6 million during the second quarter of 2019 and $8.1 million during the second quarter of 2018 to reduce the carrying values of certain franchise rights to their estimated fair values. See Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 

 43
Non-Operating Income (Expenses)

Floorplan Interest Expense

Floorplan interest expense was $138.4 million in 2019 and $130.4 million in 2018. The increase in floorplan interest expense of $8.0 million in 2019, as compared to 2018, is primarily due to higher average interest rates. Floorplan interest rates are variable and therefore increase and decrease with changes in the underlying benchmark interest rates. Our floorplan interest expense in the second half of 2019 benefited from the three interest rate cuts made by the Federal Reserve in the third and fourth quarters of 2019. 

Other Interest Expense

Other interest expense was $106.7 million in 2019 and $119.4 million in 2018. The decrease in interest expense of $12.7 million in 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to the repayment of the 6.75% Senior Notes due 2018 in the second quarter of 2018 and lower average debt balances.

Other Income, Net (included in Non-Operating Income)

 During 2019, we recorded an unrealized gain related to a minority interest equity investment of $25.7 million due to a change in the fair value of the underlying security. See Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 

Provision for Income Taxes

Income taxes are provided based upon our anticipated underlying annual blended federal and state income tax rates, adjusted, as necessary, for any discrete tax matters occurring during the period. As we operate in various states, our effective tax rate is also dependent upon our geographic revenue mix.

Our effective income tax rate was 26.4% in 2019. Our effective income tax rate of 25.2% in 2018 included favorable adjustments as a result of the U.S. tax reform bill, which was enacted into law on December 22, 2017, and, among other things, reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 

Discontinued Operations

Discontinued operations are related to stores that were sold or terminated prior to January 1, 2014. Results from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, were primarily related to carrying costs for real estate we have not yet sold associated with stores that were closed prior to January 1, 2014, and other adjustments related to disposed operations.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We manage our liquidity to ensure access to sufficient funding at acceptable costs to fund our ongoing operating requirements and future capital expenditures while continuing to meet our financial obligations. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, funds generated through future operations, and amounts available under our revolving credit facility, commercial paper program, and secured used vehicle floorplan facilities will be sufficient to fund our working capital requirements, service our debt, pay our tax obligations and commitments and contingencies, and meet any seasonal operating requirements for the foreseeable future.

Available Liquidity Resources

We had the following sources of liquidity available for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) As limited by the maximum consolidated leverage ratio in our credit agreement. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Based on the eligible used vehicle inventory that could have been pledged as collateral. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

In the ordinary course of business, we are required to post performance and surety bonds, letters of credit, and/or cash deposits as financial guarantees of our performance relating to insurance matters. At December 31, 2019, surety bonds, letters of credit, and cash deposits totaled $109.1 million, including the $39.7 million of letters of credit issued under our revolving credit facility. We do not currently provide cash collateral for outstanding letters of credit. 

Capital Allocation

Our capital allocation strategy is focused on growing long-term value per share. We invest capital in our business to maintain and upgrade our existing facilities and to build new facilities for existing franchises, as well as for other strategic and technology initiatives, including our brand extension strategy discussed above under “Strategic Initiatives.” We also deploy capital opportunistically to repurchase our common stock and/or debt, to complete acquisitions or investments, and/or build facilities for newly awarded franchises. Our capital allocation decisions will be based on factors such as the expected rate of return on our investment, the market price of our common stock versus our view of its intrinsic value, the market price of our debt, the potential impact on our capital structure, our ability to complete acquisitions that meet our market and vehicle brand criteria and return on investment threshold, and limitations set forth in our debt agreements. 

Share Repurchases

Our Board of Directors from time to time authorizes the repurchase of shares of our common stock up to a certain monetary limit. A summary of shares repurchased under our share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 44
The decision to repurchase shares at any given point in time is based on such factors as the market price of our common stock versus our view of its intrinsic value, the potential impact on our capital structure (including compliance with our maximum leverage ratio and other financial covenants in our debt agreements as well as our available liquidity), and the expected return on competing uses of capital such as acquisitions or investments, capital investments in our current businesses, or repurchases of our debt. 

As of December 31, 2019, $219 million remained available under our stock repurchase limit most recently authorized by our Board of Directors.

Capital Expenditures

The following table sets forth information regarding our capital expenditures over the past three years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Acquisitions and Divestitures

The following table sets forth information regarding cash used in business acquisitions, net of cash acquired, cash received from business divestitures, net of cash relinquished, and proceeds received from the sale of property and equipment and the disposal of assets held for sale over the past three years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2019, we purchased two parts distribution centers. We also divested three Domestic stores, five Import stores, and two collision centers during 2019. 

During 2018, we purchased one store and two collision centers. We also divested eight Domestic stores, seven Import stores, two Premium Luxury stores, and one collision center during 2018. 

We regularly review our store portfolio and may divest stores opportunistically. We have utilized proceeds related to asset sales, including business and real estate divestitures, to fund our capital investments and strategic initiatives or for other general corporate purposes. 

 45
Long-Term Debt

The following table sets forth our non-vehicle long-term debt as of December 31, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  Other debt includes finance leases as of December 31, 2019 and capital leases as of December 31, 2018. 

In February 2020, we repaid the outstanding $350.0 million of 5.5% Senior Notes through the utilization of our commercial paper program.

At December 31, 2019, we had $170.0 million of commercial paper notes outstanding with a weighted-average annual interest rate of 2.13% and a weighted-average remaining term of 12 days. At December 31, 2018, we had $630.0 million of commercial paper notes outstanding with a weighted-average annual interest rate of 3.22% and a weighted-average remaining term of 21 days. 

A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively impact the interest rate payable on our senior notes and could negatively impact our ability to issue, or the interest rates for, commercial paper notes. Additionally, an increase in our leverage ratio could negatively impact the interest rates charged for borrowings under our revolving credit facility. 

See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our long-term debt and commercial paper. 

Restrictions and Covenants

Our credit agreement, the indentures for our senior unsecured notes, and our vehicle floorplan facilities contain numerous customary financial and operating covenants that place significant restrictions on us, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness or prepay existing indebtedness, to create liens or other encumbrances, to sell (or otherwise dispose of) assets, and to merge or consolidate with other entities.

Under our credit agreement, we are required to remain in compliance with a maximum leverage ratio and maximum capitalization ratio. The leverage ratio is a contractually defined amount principally reflecting non-vehicle debt divided by a contractually defined measure of earnings with certain adjustments. The capitalization ratio is a contractually defined amount principally reflecting vehicle floorplan payable and non-vehicle debt divided by our total capitalization including vehicle floorplan payable. The specific terms of these covenants can be found in our credit agreement, which we filed with our Current Report on Form 8-K on October 24, 2017.

The indentures for our senior unsecured notes contain certain limited covenants, including limitations on liens and sale and leaseback transactions. 

Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our debt agreements could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness. Our debt agreements have cross-default provisions that trigger a default in the event of an uncured default under other material indebtedness of AutoNation.

 46
As of December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with the requirements of the financial covenants under our debt agreements. Under the terms of our credit agreement, at December 31, 2019, our leverage ratio and capitalization ratio were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Vehicle Floorplan Payable

The components of vehicle floorplan payable are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our vehicle floorplan payable.

Cash Flows

The following table summarizes the changes in our cash provided by (used in) operating, investing, and financing activities:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Our primary sources of operating cash flows result from the sale of vehicles and finance and insurance products, collections from customers for the sale of parts and services, and proceeds from vehicle floorplan payable-trade. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are repayments of vehicle floorplan payable-trade, purchases of inventory, personnel-related expenditures, and payments related to taxes and leased properties.

2019 compared to 2018 

Net cash provided by operating activities increased during 2019, as compared to 2018, primarily due to a decrease in working capital requirements and an increase in earnings.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Net cash flows from investing activities consist primarily of cash used in capital additions and activity from business acquisitions, business divestitures, property dispositions, and other transactions.

We will make facility and infrastructure upgrades and improvements from time to time as we identify projects that are required to maintain our current business or that we expect to provide us with acceptable rates of return. 

2019 compared to 2018 

Net cash used in investing activities decreased during 2019, as compared to 2018, primarily due to decreases in purchases of property and equipment, cash used in business acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and investments in equity securities, partially offset by decreases in cash received from business divestitures, net of cash relinquished, and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment.

 47
Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Net cash flows from financing activities primarily include repurchases of common stock, debt activity, changes in vehicle floorplan payable-non-trade, and proceeds from stock option exercises.

2019 compared to 2018 

Cash flows from financing activities include changes in commercial paper notes outstanding totaling net payments of $460.0 million during 2019 and net proceeds of $300.0 million during 2018, as well as changes in vehicle floorplan payable-non-trade totaling net repayments of $134.3 million during 2019 compared to net repayments of $34.2 million in 2018.

During 2019, we repurchased 1.3 million shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $44.7 million (average purchase price per share of $35.51). During 2018, we repurchased 2.1 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $100.0 million (average purchase price per share of $47.58). 

During 2018, we repaid the outstanding $400.0 million of 6.75% Senior Notes.

Contractual Payment Obligations

The following table summarizes our payment obligations under certain contracts at December 31, 2019. The amounts presented are based upon, among other things, the terms of any relevant agreements. Future events that may occur related to the following payment obligations could cause actual payments to differ significantly from these amounts. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Primarily represents scheduled fixed interest payments on our outstanding senior unsecured notes and finance leases. Estimates of future interest payments for vehicle floorplan payables and commercial paper are excluded due to the short-term nature of these facilities.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(5) Due to uncertainty regarding timing of payments expected beyond one year, long-term obligations for deferred compensation arrangements have been classified in the “More Than 5 Years” column.

 48
(6) Our estimated chargeback obligations do not have scheduled maturities, however, the timing of future payments is estimated based on historical patterns.

(7) Our estimated self-insurance obligations are based on management estimates and actuarial calculations. Although these obligations do not have scheduled maturities, the timing of future payments is estimated based on historical patterns.

(8) Primarily represents purchase orders and contracts in connection with information technology and communication systems and real estate construction projects. 

We expect that the amounts above will be funded through cash flows from operations or borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit agreement. In the case of payments due upon the maturity of our debt instruments, we currently expect to be able to refinance such instruments in the normal course of business.

In the ordinary course of business, we are required to post performance and surety bonds, letters of credit, and/or cash deposits as financial guarantees of our performance. At December 31, 2019, surety bonds, letters of credit, and cash deposits totaled $109.1 million, of which $39.7 million were letters of credit. We do not currently provide cash collateral for outstanding letters of credit. We have negotiated a letter of credit sublimit as part of our revolving credit facility. The amount available to be borrowed under this revolving credit facility is reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis by the cumulative amount of any outstanding letters of credit.

As further discussed in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, there are various tax matters where the ultimate resolution may result in us owing additional tax payments.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of December 31, 2019, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.

Forward-Looking Statements

Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and prospects, and the prevailing market price and performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. Certain statements and information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including, without limitation, statements regarding our strategic initiatives, partnerships, or investments, including our brand extension strategies, as well as statements regarding our expectations for the future performance of our business and the automotive retail industry, as well as other written or oral statements made from time to time by us or by our authorized executive officers on our behalf, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements that describe our objectives, plans or goals are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Words such as “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “goal,” “plan,” “believe,” “continue,” “may,” “will,” “could,” and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations concerning future results and events, and they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to revise or update these statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. The risks, uncertainties, and other factors that our stockholders and prospective investors should consider include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•The automotive retail industry is sensitive to changing economic conditions and various other factors, including, but not limited to, fuel prices, interest rates, and tariffs. Our business and results of operations are substantially dependent on new and used vehicle sales levels in the United States and in our particular geographic markets, as well as the gross profit margins that we can achieve on our sales of vehicles, all of which are very difficult to predict.

•Our new vehicle sales are impacted by the incentive, marketing, and other programs of vehicle manufacturers.

•We are dependent upon the success and continued financial viability of the vehicle manufacturers and distributors with which we hold franchises.

•We are investing significantly in our brand extension strategy, and if our strategic initiatives are not successful, we will have incurred significant expenses without the benefit of improved financial results.

•If we are not able to maintain and enhance our retail brands and reputation or to attract consumers to our own digital channels, or if events occur that damage our retail brands, reputation, or sales channels, our business and financial results may be harmed. 

•New laws, regulations, or governmental policies regarding fuel economy and greenhouse gas emission standards, or changes to existing standards, may affect vehicle manufacturers’ ability to produce cost-effective vehicles or vehicles that consumers demand, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow, and prospects.

•Natural disasters and adverse weather events can disrupt our business.

 49
•We are subject to restrictions imposed by, and significant influence from, vehicle manufacturers that may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and prospects, including our ability to acquire additional stores.

•We are subject to numerous legal and administrative proceedings, which, if the outcomes are adverse to us, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and prospects.

•Our operations are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations. If we are found to be in purported violation of or subject to liabilities under any of these laws or regulations, or if new laws or regulations are enacted that adversely affect our operations, our business, operating results, and prospects could suffer.

•A failure of our information systems or any security breach or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information could have a material adverse effect on our business.

•Our debt agreements contain certain financial ratios and other restrictions on our ability to conduct our business, and our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and operations and prevent us from fulfilling our debt service obligations.

•We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with our vehicle floorplan payables, revolving credit facility, and commercial paper program that could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.

•Goodwill and other intangible assets comprise a significant portion of our total assets. We must test our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at least annually, which could result in a material, non-cash write-down of goodwill or franchise rights and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and shareholders’ equity.

•Our minority equity investment in Vroom Inc. does not have a readily determinable fair value and its fair value is subject to fluctuations based on observable price changes. These fluctuations could result in a downward adjustment or require us to record an impairment, both of which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. 

•Our largest stockholders, as a result of their ownership stakes in us, may have the ability to exert substantial influence over actions to be taken or approved by our stockholders. In addition, future share repurchases and fluctuations in the levels of ownership of our largest stockholders could impact the volume of trading, liquidity, and market price of our common stock.

Additional Information

Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information using our company website (www.autonation.com), our investor relations website (investors.autonation.com), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls, and webcasts. Information about AutoNation, its business, and its results of operations may also be announced by posts on the following social media channels: 

•AutoNation’s Twitter feed (www.twitter.com/autonation)

•Cheryl Miller’s Twitter feed (www.twitter.com/CEOCherylMiller)

The information that we post on these social media channels could be deemed to be material information. As a result, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in AutoNation to review the information that we post on these social media channels. These channels may be updated from time to time on AutoNation’s investor relations website. The information on or accessible through our websites and social media channels is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK