Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

(dollars in millions, except per-share amounts; shipments in thousands of metric tons [kmt])

Overview

Our Business

Arconic Inc. (“Arconic” or the “Company”) is a global leader in lightweight metals engineering and manufacturing. Arconic’s innovative, multi-material products, which include aluminum, titanium, and nickel, are used worldwide in aerospace, automotive, commercial transportation, building and construction, industrial applications, defense, and packaging. 

Arconic is a global company operating in 18 countries. Based upon the country where the point of sale occurred, the United States and Europe generated 67% and 23%, respectively, of Arconic’s sales in 2019. In addition, Arconic has operating activities in numerous countries and regions outside the United States, including Europe, Canada, China, Japan, and Russia. Governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, affect the results of operations in countries with such operating activities.

Management Review of 2019 and Outlook for the Future

In 2019, Sales increased 1% over 2018 as a result of volume growth in the aerospace, packaging, commercial transportation, and industrial end markets; and favorable product pricing in the Global Rolled Products (GRP) and Engineered Products and Forgings (EP&F) segments; partially offset by lower aluminum prices; and lower sales of $216 from divestitures of forgings businesses in the United Kingdom (divested in December 2019) and Eger, Hungary (divested in December 2018), Latin America extrusions (divested in April 2018), and the completed ramp down of Arconic's North American packaging operations (in December 2018). In the segments, Segment operating profit increased 27% from 2018 due to favorable product pricing, net cost savings, lower raw material costs including aluminum price, and higher volumes, partially offset by the impact of the Tennessee plant transition to industrial production, operational challenges at one aluminum extrusions plant, and higher variable compensation costs.

Management continued its focus on liquidity and cash flows as well as improving its operating performance through cost reductions, streamlined organizational structures, margin enhancement, and profitable revenue generation. Management has continued its intensified focus on capital efficiency. This focus and the related results enabled Arconic to end 2019 with a solid financial position.

The following financial information reflects certain key highlights of Arconic’s 2019 results:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Cash on hand at the end of the year of $1,648; and[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) For the reconciliation of Total segment operating profit to Consolidated income before income taxes and related information, see page 43.

The Company rapidly executed on the separation plan that was announced in February 2019 and is targeting completion of the separation on April 1, 2020. The company will separate into two independent, publicly-traded companies, to be named Howmet Aerospace Inc. (Remain Co.) and Arconic Corporation (Spin Co.) (the “Separation of Arconic”). Remain Co. will be comprised of the Company’s Engineered Products and Forgings businesses (engine products, fastening systems, engineered structures and forged wheels) and will be renamed Howmet Aerospace Inc. at separation and change its stock ticker from “ARNC” to “HWM.” Spin Co. will be comprised of the Company’s Global Rolled Products businesses (global rolled products, aluminum extrusions and building and construction systems) and will be held by a new company that will be named Arconic Corporation at separation and that intends to list its common stock on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “ARNC.” 

On February 5, 2020, Arconic’s Board of Directors approved the completion of the Separation of Arconic by means of a pro rata distribution by the Company of all of the outstanding common stock of Arconic Corporation, with each Arconic Inc. stockholder of record as of the close of business on March 19, 2020 receiving one share of Arconic Corporation common stock for every four shares of the Company’s common stock held as of the record date. On February 7, 2020, the Company announced that Arconic Rolled Products Corporation (the “Issuer”), which is currently a wholly-owned subsidiary of Arconic, 

37
closed its offering of $600 aggregate principal amount of 6.125% second-lien notes due 2028. The proceeds will be used to make a payment to Arconic to fund the transfer of certain assets to the Issuer in connection with the separation and for general corporate purposes. On February 13, 2020, the Registration Statement on Form 10 for Arconic Rolled Products Corporation was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

In conjunction with the Separation of Arconic, the Company realigned its reporting segments in the third quarter of 2019 by eliminating its Transportation and Construction Solutions segment and transferring the forged wheels business to the EP&F segment and transferring the building and construction systems business to the GRP segment. The Company also executed on its plan to sell businesses that do not best fit into one of its two segments, having signed or closed on divestitures in 2019 resulting in proceeds of approximately $190.

Results of Operations

Earnings Summary

Sales. Sales for 2019 were $14,192 compared with $14,014 in 2018, an increase of $178, or 1%. The increase was primarily due to volume growth in the aerospace, packaging, commercial transportation, and industrial end markets; favorable product pricing and mix in the GRP segment; and favorable product pricing in the EP&F segment when fulfilling volume above contractual share, renewing contracts, and selling non-contractual spot business; partially offset by lower aluminum prices; lower sales of $216 from the completed ramp down of Arconic's North American packaging operations (in December 2018) and the divestitures of forgings businesses in the United Kingdom (divested in December 2019) and Hungary (divested in December 2018), and the Latin America extrusions business (divested in April 2018); and unfavorable foreign currency movements.

Sales for 2018 were $14,014 compared with $12,960 in 2017, an increase of $1,054, or 8%. The increase was the result of strong volume growth across both segments, primarily in the aerospace engines and defense, automotive, commercial transportation, industrial, and building and construction end markets; higher aluminum prices and favorable product mix primarily in the GRP segment; and favorable foreign currency movements; partially offset by a decline in volumes in the industrial gas turbine end market; lower sales of $190 from the divestitures of the Latin America extrusions business, the rolling mill in Fusina, Italy (divested in March 2017), and the ramp down of Arconic's North American packaging operations; and costs of $38 in 2018 related to settlements of certain customer claims primarily related to product introductions.

Cost of Goods Sold (COGS). COGS as a percentage of Sales was 79.1% in 2019 compared with 81.3% in 2018. The decrease was primarily due to lower raw material costs including aluminum prices; net cost savings; favorable product pricing; and costs incurred in 2018 that did not recur in 2019 related to settlements of certain customer claims of $38 noted above and a charge related to a physical inventory adjustment at one plant in the GRP segment of $23. These positive impacts were partially offset by unfavorable product mix; a charge for environmental remediation at Grasse River of $25; the impairment of energy business assets of $10; and a charge primarily for a one-time signing bonus for employees associated with the collective bargaining agreement negotiation of $9. In June of 2019 the Company and the United Steelworkers reached a tentative three-year labor agreement covering approximately 3,400 employees at four U.S. locations; the previous labor agreement expired on May 15, 2019. The tentative agreement was ratified on July 11, 2019. Additionally, in 2019, the Company sustained a fire at a fasteners plant in France and recorded charges of $26 for higher operating costs, equipment and inventory damage, and repairs and cleanup costs. The Company submitted an insurance claim and received a partial settlement of $25, which was in excess of its $10 insurance deductible. The insurance claim included $8 of margin not recognized from lost revenue due to the fire. The Company anticipates a charge of approximately $10 to $15 in the first quarter of 2020, with additional impacts in subsequent quarters as the business continues to recover from the fire, which are also expected to be covered by insurance proceeds.

COGS as a percentage of Sales was 81.3% in 2018 compared with 78.9% in 2017. The increase was the result of higher aluminum prices; unfavorable aerospace product mix; higher transportation costs; manufacturing inefficiencies in Engineered Structures; performance shortfalls in the Disks asset group; costs related to settlements of certain customer claims noted above; and the impact of a charge related to a physical inventory adjustment at one plant in the GRP segment of $23 that was recorded in the second quarter of 2018. While a portion of this charge for the physical inventory adjustment related to prior years, the majority related to the first half of 2018. The out-of-period amounts were not material to any interim or annual periods.

Selling, General Administrative, and Other Expenses (SG&A). SG&A expenses were $704, or 5.0% of Sales, in 2019 compared with $604, or 4.3% of Sales, in 2018. The increase in SG&A of $100, or 17%, was primarily due to costs associated with the planned Separation of Arconic of $78 and higher annual incentive compensation accruals and executive compensation costs, partially offset by lower costs driven by overhead cost reductions and lower net legal and other advisory costs related to Grenfell Tower of $10, primarily due to insurance reimbursements.

SG&A expenses were $604, or 4.3% of Sales, in 2018 compared with $715, or 5.5% of Sales, in 2017. The decrease in SG&A of $111, or 16%, was the result of proxy, advisory and governance-related costs of $58, costs related to the Separation of Alcoa Inc. of $18, and costs associated with the Company’s Delaware reincorporation of $3 in 2017, none of which recurred in 2018. 

38
Additionally, lower expenses driven by lower annual incentive compensation accruals and overhead cost reductions were somewhat offset by an increase in legal and other advisory costs related to Grenfell Tower of $4 as well as strategy and portfolio review costs of $7 in 2018.

Research and Development Expenses (R&D). R&D expenses were $70 in 2019 compared with $103 in 2018. The decrease of $33, or 32%, was primarily due to the consolidation of the Company's primary R&D facility in conjunction with ongoing cost reduction efforts.

R&D expenses were $103 in 2018 compared with $109 in 2017. The decrease of $6, or 6%, was the result of lower spending.

Provision for Depreciation and Amortization (D&A). The provision for D&A was $536 in 2019 compared with $576 in 2018. The decrease of $40, or 7%, was primarily due to the impact of divestitures, as well as asset impairments in the EP&F segment during the second quarter of 2019 (see Note M to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Form 10-K).

The provision for D&A was $576 in 2018 compared with $551 in 2017. The increase of $25, or 5%, was primarily due to capital projects placed into service.

Impairment of Goodwill. In 2017, the Company recognized an impairment of goodwill of $719 related to the annual impairment review of its Arconic Forgings and Extrusions (AFE) business (see Goodwill under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates below).

Restructuring and Other Charges. Restructuring and other charges were $620 in 2019 compared with $9 in 2018 and $165 in 2017.

Restructuring and other charges in 2019 primarily included asset impairments of $556, related to the Disks asset group of $428, agreements to sell the Company’s Brazilian rolling mill operations, the U.K. forgings business, and a small additive business of $112, and a trade name intangible asset and properties, plant, and equipment related to the Company’s primary research and development facility of $25; and a charge for layoff costs of $103, including the separation of approximately 1,310 employees; partially offset by a benefit from the elimination of the life insurance benefit for the U.S. salaried and non-bargaining hourly retirees of the Company and its subsidiaries of $58; and a gain for contingent consideration received from the sale of the Texarkana rolling mill of $20.

Restructuring and other charges in 2018 primarily included a charge for pension and other postretirement benefits net settlements and curtailments of $91; a loss on the sale of the Hungary forgings business of $43; and a charge for layoff costs of $20, including the separation of approximately 125 employees; partially offset by a gain on the asset sale of the Texarkana rolling mill of $154.

Restructuring and other charges in 2017 primarily included a charge for layoff costs of $69, including the separation of approximately 880 employees; a charge related to the sale of the Italy rolling mill of $60; and a charge for the impairment of assets associated with the sale of the Latin America extrusions business of $41.

See Note C to the to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Form 10-K.

Interest Expense. Interest expense was $338 in 2019 compared with $378 in 2018. The decrease of $40, or 11%, was primarily due to lower debt outstanding, driven by the repayment of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the 1.63% Convertible Notes of approximately $403 on October 15, 2019, as well as costs incurred of $19 in 2018 related to the premium paid on the early redemption of the Company’s then outstanding 5.72% Senior Notes due 2019 that did not recur in 2019.

Interest expense was $378 in 2018 compared with $496 in 2017. The decrease of $118, or 24%, was the result of higher costs incurred in 2017 related to the early redemption of the Company’s outstanding debt than were incurred during 2018, as well as lower debt outstanding.

Other Expense (Income), Net. Other expense, net was $122 in 2019 compared with $79 in 2018. The increase of $43 was primarily due to an increase in deferred compensation arrangements and related investment performance and the benefit recognized in 2018 from establishing a tax indemnification receivable reflecting Alcoa Corporation’s 49% share of a Spanish tax reserve of $29 that did not recur in 2019, partially offset by favorable foreign currency movements. 

Other expense, net was $79 in 2018 compared with Other income, net of $486 in 2017. The decrease in Other income, net of $565 was the result of gains recorded during 2017 related to the sale of a portion of Arconic’s investment in Alcoa Corporation common stock of $351, the Debt-for-Equity Exchange (in April and May 2017, the Company acquired a portion of its outstanding notes held by two investment banks (the “Investment Banks”) in exchange for cash and the Company’s remaining 12,958,767 shares (valued at $35.91 per share) in Alcoa Corporation stock and recorded a gain of $167), income associated with an adjustment to the contingent earn-out liability related to the Firth Rixson acquisition of $81 (see Note S to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Form 10-K), and 

39
income due to the reversal of a liability associated with a separation-related guarantee of $25, none of which recurred in 2018, and unfavorable foreign currency movements, somewhat offset by lower non-service related net periodic benefit cost and the benefit of $29 from establishing a tax indemnification receivable reflecting Alcoa Corporation’s 49% share of a Spanish tax reserve (see Note T to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Form 10-K).

Income Taxes. Arconic’s effective tax rate was 18.3% in 2019 compared with the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21%. The effective rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily as a result of a $94 net benefit related to a U.S. tax election which caused the deemed liquidation of a foreign subsidiary’s assets into its U.S. tax parent, a $24 net benefit associated with the deduction of foreign taxes that were previously claimed as a U.S. foreign tax credit, and a $12 net benefit for foreign tax rate changes, partially offset by the tax impact of $89 of non-deductible executive compensation and transaction costs, $53 of impairment charges related to the Company’s Brazilian rolling mill operations and other foreign losses with no tax benefit, a $14 charge for U.S. state taxes, and by foreign income subject to U.S. taxes.

Arconic’s effective tax rate was 26.0% in 2018 compared with the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21%. The effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily as a result of a $60 charge to establish a tax reserve in Spain, a $59 net charge resulting from the Company’s finalized analysis of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Acts of 2017 ("the 2017 Act"), a $13 charge for U.S. state taxes, foreign income taxed in higher rate jurisdictions, and foreign losses with no tax benefit, partially offset by a $74 benefit related to the reversal of a foreign recapture obligation, a $38 benefit to reverse a foreign tax reserve that is effectively settled, and a $10 benefit for the release of U.S. valuation allowances. 

Arconic’s effective tax rate was 115.7% in 2017 compared with the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35%. The effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily as a result of a $719 impairment of goodwill, a $41 impairment of assets in the Latin America extrusions business, and a $60 charge related to the sale of a rolling mill in Italy that are nondeductible for income tax purposes, a $272 tax charge as a provisional impact of the 2017 Act, and a $23 tax charge for an increase in an uncertain tax position in Germany, partially offset by a $73 tax benefit related to the sale and Debt-for-Equity Exchange of the Alcoa Corporation stock, a $69 tax benefit for the release of U.S. state valuation allowances net of the federal tax benefit, a $27 favorable tax impact associated with a non-taxable earn-out liability adjustment in connection with the Firth Rixson acquisition, and by foreign income taxed in lower rate jurisdictions. Arconic’s effective tax rate was 356.5% in 2016 compared with the U.S. fed

Arconic anticipates that the effective tax rate in 2020 will be between 26.5% and 28.5%. However, the planned Separation of Arconic, other business portfolio actions, changes in the current economic environment, tax legislation or rate changes, currency fluctuations, ability to realize deferred tax assets, movements in stock price impacting tax benefits or deficiencies on stock-based payment awards, and the results of operations in certain taxing jurisdictions may cause this estimated rate to fluctuate.

Net Income. Net income was $470 for 2019, or $1.03 per diluted share, compared to Net income of $642 for 2018, or $1.33 per share. The decrease in results of $172 was primarily due to higher Restructuring and other charges; higher SG&A expenses due to costs associated with the planned Separation of Arconic of $70 ($78 before-tax) and higher annual incentive compensation accruals and executive compensation costs; and higher Other expense, net due to an increase in deferred compensation arrangements and related investment performance and the benefit recognized in 2018 from establishing a tax indemnification receivable reflecting Alcoa Corporation’s 49% share of a Spanish tax reserve of $28 ($29 before-tax) that did not recur in 2019; partially offset by volume growth; favorable product pricing; net cost savings; lower D&A due to the impact of divestitures as well as asset impairments in the EP&F segment; lower Interest expense due to lower debt outstanding and costs incurred of $15 ($19 before-tax) in 2018 related to the premium paid on the early redemption of debt that did not recur in 2019; lower R&D expenses due to the consolidation of the Company's primary R&D facility in conjunction with ongoing cost reduction efforts; and lower Income taxes primarily as a result of a benefit related to a U.S. tax election which caused the deemed liquidation of a foreign subsidiary’s assets into its U.S. tax parent.

Net income was $642 for 2018, or $1.30 per diluted share, compared to a Net loss of $74 for 2017, or $0.28 per share. The increase in results of $716 was due in part to the following items that occurred in 2017 but did not recur in 2018: a charge for goodwill impairment of $719 ($719 pre-tax); gains related to the sale of a portion of Arconic’s investment in Alcoa Corporation common stock and the Debt-for-Equity Exchange of $405 ($518 pre-tax); and favorable adjustments to contingent earn-out and guarantee liabilities of $97 ($106 pre-tax). Additional favorable impacts in 2018 included: volume growth across both segments; lower SG&A expenses due to proxy and separation costs incurred in 2017 and not recurring in 2018, as well as lower incentive compensation accruals; lower Restructuring and other charges driven primarily by the gain on sale of the Texarkana rolling mill, offset by pension settlement charges and the loss on sale of the forgings business in Hungary; lower Interest expense due to lower debt levels; lower pension expenses; and lower Income taxes. These favorable impacts were partially offset by unfavorable aerospace product mix, higher aluminum prices, manufacturing inefficiencies in Engineered Structures, performance shortfalls in the Disks asset group, settlements of certain customer claims, and an unfavorable physical inventory adjustment at one plant.

40
Segment Information

Arconic’s operations consist of two worldwide reportable segments: Engineered Products and Forgings (EP&F) and Global Rolled Products (GRP). Segment performance under Arconic’s management reporting system is evaluated based on a number of factors; however, the primary measure of performance is Segment operating profit. Arconic’s definition of Segment operating profit is Operating income excluding Special items. Special items include Restructuring and other charges and Impairment of goodwill. Segment operating profit may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Differences between segment totals and consolidated Arconic are in Corporate.

In the third quarter of 2019, the Company realigned its operations by eliminating its Transportation and Construction Solutions (TCS) segment and transferring the Forged Wheels business to its EP&F segment and the Building and Solutions Systems (BCS) business to its GRP segment, consistent with how the Chief Executive Officer is assessing operating performance and allocating capital in conjunction with the planned Separation of Arconic (see Note U to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Form 10-K). The Latin America extrusions business, which was formerly part of the Company's TCS segment until its sale in April of 2018 (see Note S to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Form 10-K), was moved to Corporate. In the first quarter of 2019, management transferred its aluminum extrusions operations from its Engineered Structures business unit within the EP&F segment to the GRP segment, based on synergies with the GRP segment including similar customer base, technologies, and manufacturing capabilities. Prior period financial information has been recast to conform to current year presentation.

Arconic produces aerospace engine parts and components, aerospace fastening systems, and aluminum sheet and plate products for Boeing 737 MAX airplanes. The temporary reduction in the production rate of the 737 MAX airplanes that was announced by Boeing in April 2019 did not have a significant impact on the Company's sales or segment operating profit in 2019. In late December 2019, Boeing announced a temporary suspension of production of the 737 MAX airplanes. In 2020, the Company expects a reduction in production rate to have a negative impact on sales of approximately $400 along with a corresponding impact on segment operating profit in the EP&F and GRP segments.

Segment operating profit for all reportable segments totaled $2,015 in 2019, $1,586 in 2018, and $1,689 in 2017. The following information provides Sales and Segment operating profit for each reportable segment, as well as certain shipment data for GRP, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019. See Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Form 10-K.

Engineered Products and Forgings 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Engineered Products and Forgings segment produces products that are used primarily in the aerospace (commercial and defense), industrial, commercial transportation, and power generation end markets. Such products include fastening systems (aluminum, titanium, steel, and nickel superalloys) and seamless rolled rings (mostly nickel superalloys); investment castings (nickel superalloys, titanium, and aluminum), including airfoils; forged jet engine components (e.g., jet engine disks); extruded, machined and forged aircraft parts (titanium and aluminum); and forged aluminum commercial vehicle wheels, all of which are sold directly to customers and through distributors. Approximately 70% of the third-party sales in this segment are from the aerospace end market. A small part of this segment also produces various forged and machined metal products (titanium and aluminum) for various end markets. Seasonal decreases in sales are experienced for certain products in the third quarter of the year due to the European summer slowdown. Generally, the sales and costs and expenses of this segment are transacted in the local currency of the respective operations, which are mostly the U.S. dollar, British pound and the euro.

On December 1, 2019, Arconic completed the divestiture of its forgings business in the United Kingdom. The forgings business primarily produces steel, titanium, and nickel based forged components for aerospace, mining, and off-highway markets. This business generated third-party sales of $116, $131, and $127 in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively, and had 540 employees at the time of the divestiture.

On December 31, 2018, as part of the Company’s then ongoing strategy and portfolio review, Arconic completed the sale of its forgings business in Hungary that manufactured high volume steel forgings for drivetrain components in the European heavy-duty truck and automotive market. This business generated third-party sales of $32 and $38 in 2018 and 2017, respectively, and had 180 employees at the time of the divestiture.

Third-party sales for the Engineered Products and Forgings segment increased $307, or 5%, in 2019 compared with 2018, primarily as a result of higher aerospace and commercial transportation volumes and favorable product pricing, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency movements and lower sales of $47 from divestitures of forgings businesses in the United Kingdom (divested in December 2019) and Hungary (divested in December 2018).

41
Third-party sales for this segment increased $498, or 8%, in 2018 compared with 2017, primarily attributable to higher volumes in the aerospace engines, defense, and commercial transportation end markets and favorable foreign currency movements, partially offset by a decline in volumes in the industrial gas turbine market and lower aerospace pricing principally in the fasteners business.

Segment operating profit for the Engineered Products and Forgings segment increased $285, or 26%, in 2019 compared with 2018, due to net cost savings, higher volumes as noted previously, favorable product pricing, and lower raw material costs, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of new product introductions in aerospace engines and unfavorable product mix.

Segment operating profit for this segment decreased $14, or 1%, in 2018 compared with 2017, primarily attributable to performance shortfalls in the Disks asset group; manufacturing inefficiencies in the Engineered Structures business, associated with the now resolved forging press outage at the Cleveland facility that impacted the fourth quarter of 2018 with higher costs of $10; unfavorable aerospace engine mix and new product introductions; and lower aerospace pricing principally in the fasteners business; partly offset by the strength in aerospace engine, defense, and commercial transportation volumes and net cost savings.

In 2020 compared to 2019, demand in the commercial aerospace end market, excluding the impact of Boeing 737 MAX, is expected to remain strong, driven by the ramp-up of new aerospace engine platforms. Demand in the defense end market is expected to continue to grow due to the ramp-up of certain aerospace programs, while the commercial transportation end market is expected to be down. Net cost savings and favorable pricing are expected to continue.

In mid-February 2020, a fire occurred at the Company’s forged wheels plant located in Barberton, Ohio. While some equipment has safely been returned to service at reduced production levels, the extent of the damage and the financial impact are not yet known as the investigation into the cause of the fire and its full impact continues. The Company has insurance with a deductible of $10.

Global Rolled Products

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Global Rolled Products segment produces aluminum sheet and plate, aluminum extruded and machined parts, integrated aluminum structural systems, and architectural extrusions used in the automotive, aerospace, building and construction, industrial, packaging, and commercial transportation end markets. Products are sold directly to customers and through distributors. While the customer base for flat-rolled products is large, a significant amount of sales of sheet and plate is to a relatively small number of customers. Generally, the sales and costs and expenses of this segment are transacted in the local currency of the respective operations, which are mostly the U.S. dollar, Chinese yuan, the euro, the Russian ruble, the Brazilian real, and the British pound.

In March 2017, Arconic completed the sale of its Fusina, Italy rolling mill. The rolling mill generated third-party sales of $54 in 2017 and had approximately 312 employees.

Third-party sales for the Global Rolled Products segment decreased $141, or 2%, in 2019 compared with 2018, primarily as a result of lower aluminum prices, the absence of sales of $144 from the completed ramp down of Arconic's North American packaging operations (completed in December 2018), and unfavorable foreign currency movements, partially offset by favorable product pricing and mix and higher volumes in the packaging, aerospace, and industrial end markets.

Third-party sales for this segment increased $683, or 10%, in 2018 compared with 2017, primarily attributable to higher aluminum prices; higher volumes in the automotive, commercial transportation, and industrial end markets; and favorable product mix; partially offset by the absence of sales of $54 from the rolling mill in Fusina, Italy and the planned ramp down of Arconic's North American packaging operations.

Segment operating profit for the Global Rolled Products segment increased $144, or 30%, in 2019 compared with 2018, due to favorable pricing adjustments on industrial and commercial transportation products; favorable aluminum price impacts; net cost savings; favorable product mix; and the impact of a charge incurred in 2018 related to a physical inventory adjustment at one plant that did not recur in 2019; partially offset by operational challenges at one aluminum extrusions plant and the impact of the Tennessee plant transition to industrial production.

42
Segment operating profit for this segment decreased $89, or 16%, in 2018 compared with 2017, primarily driven by operational challenges at one plant, higher aluminum prices, unfavorable aerospace wide-body production mix, higher transportation costs and scrap spreads, and a physical inventory adjustment of $23; partially offset by higher automotive, commercial transportation and industrial volumes.

On February 1, 2020, Arconic sold its aluminum rolling mill in Itapissuma, Brazil. This rolling mill generated sales of $143 in 2019 and had 513 employees at the time of divestiture.

In 2020 compared to 2019, demand from the automotive end market is expected to be up, while headwinds will continue in the commercial transportation end market. The aerospace airframe end market will be heavily influenced by the 737 MAX situation. Growth is expected with the Tennessee industrial products ramp-up. The BCS business expects continued growth and margin expansion. Net productivity improvements are also anticipated to continue.

Reconciliation of Total segment operating profit to Consolidated income from continuing operations before income taxes

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Impairment of Goodwill, Restructuring and Other Charges, Interest Expense, and Other Expense (Income), Net, discussions above under Results of Operations for reference.

Corporate expense increased $108, or 43%, in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to costs associated with the planned Separation of Arconic of $78; higher annual incentive compensation accruals and executive compensation costs; environmental remediation costs for Grasse River of $25; impairment of energy business assets of $10; net impacts associated with a fire at a fasteners plant of $9 (net of insurance reimbursements); and collective bargaining agreement negotiation costs of $9; partially offset by costs incurred in 2018 that did not recur in 2019 related to settlements of certain customer claims of $38; lower costs driven by overhead cost reductions; lower research and development expenses; and lower net legal and other advisory costs related to Grenfell Tower of $10 primarily due to insurance reimbursements. 

Corporate expense decreased $73, or 22%, in 2018 compared with 2017 primarily due to proxy, advisory and governance-related costs of $58 and costs related to the Separation of Alcoa Inc. of $18 in 2017, neither of which recurred in 2018. Also, lower expenses driven by lower annual incentive compensation accruals and overhead cost reductions were partially offset by costs incurred in the second quarter of 2018 related to the settlements of certain customer claims primarily related to product introductions of $38, an increase in legal and other advisory costs related to Grenfell Tower of $4, and strategy and portfolio review costs of $7 in 2018.

Environmental Matters

See the Environmental Matters section of Note T to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Arconic maintains a disciplined approach to cash management and strengthening of its balance sheet. Management continued to focus on actions to improve Arconic’s cost structure and liquidity, providing the Company with the ability to operate effectively. Such actions included procurement efficiencies and overhead rationalization to reduce costs, working capital initiatives, and maintaining a sustainable level of capital expenditures.

Cash provided from operations and financing activities is expected to be adequate to cover Arconic’s operational and business needs over the next 12 months. For an analysis of long-term liquidity, see Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements below.

43
At December 31, 2019, cash and cash equivalents of Arconic were $1,648, of which $414 was held by Arconic's non-U.S. subsidiaries. If the cash held by non-U.S. subsidiaries were to be repatriated to the U.S., the company does not expect there to be additional material income tax consequences.

Operating Activities

Cash provided from operations in 2019 was $406 compared with $217 in 2018. The increase of $189, or 87%, was primarily due to higher operating results and lower pension contributions of $30, partially offset by higher working capital of $112. The components of the change in working capital included unfavorable changes in accounts payable of $395 and taxes, including income taxes of $106, partially offset by favorable changes in receivables of $165 and accrued expenses of $148. 

Cash provided from operations in 2018 was $217 compared with Cash used for operations $39 in 2017. The increase of $256 was primarily due to lower working capital of $209 and a favorable change in noncurrent liabilities of $169 due primarily to reversals in 2017 related to the Firth Rixson earn-out liability of $81 and separation-related guarantee liability of $25, partially offset by lower operating results. The components of the change in working capital included favorable changes in accounts payable of $277, taxes, including income taxes of $127, and inventories of $118, partially offset by unfavorable changes in receivables of $227, accrued expenses of $74, and prepaid expenses and other current assets of $12.

Financing Activities

Cash used for financing activities was $1,568 in 2019 compared with $649 in 2018 and $1,015 in 2017.

The use of cash in 2019 was primarily related to the repurchase of $1,150 of common stock (see Note H to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data); repayments on borrowings under certain revolving credit facilities (see below) and repayments on debt, primarily the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the 1.63% Convertible Notes of approximately $403 (see Note P to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data); and dividends paid to shareholders of $57. These items were partially offset by additions to debt for borrowings under certain revolving credit facilities of $400 and proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of $56.

The use of cash in 2018 was principally the result of $1,103 in repayments on borrowings under certain revolving credit facilities (see below) and repayments on debt, primarily related to the early redemption of the then remaining outstanding 5.72% Notes due in 2019 (see Note P to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Form 10-K) and $119 in dividends to shareholders. These items were partially offset by $600 in additions to debt, primarily from borrowings under certain revolving credit facilities.

The use of cash in 2017 was principally the result of $1,634 in repayments on borrowings under certain revolving credit facilities (see below) and repayments on debt, primarily related to the early redemption of the Company’s 6.50% Bonds due 2018, 6.75% Notes due 2018, and a portion of the 5.72% Notes due 2019 (see Note P to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Form 10-K); $162 in dividends to shareholders; and $52 in premiums paid on early redemption of debt. These items were partially offset by $816 in additions to debt, primarily from borrowings under certain revolving credit facilities, and $50 of proceeds from the exercise of stock options.

In September 2014, Arconic completed two public securities offerings under its shelf registration statement for (i) $1,250 of 25 million depositary shares, each representing a 1/10th interest in a share of Arconic’s 5.375% Class B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, Series 1, par value $1 per share, liquidation preference $500 per share, and (ii) $1,250 of 5.125% Notes due 2024. The net proceeds of the offerings were used to finance the cash portion of the acquisition of Firth Rixson. On October 2, 2017, all outstanding 24,975,978 depositary shares were converted at a rate of 1.56996 into 39,211,286 common shares; 24,022 depositary shares were previously tendered for early conversion into 31,420 shares of Arconic common stock. No gain or loss was recognized associated with this noncash equity transaction.

Arconic maintains a Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of lenders and issuers named therein that expires on June 29, 2023 and provides for a senior unsecured revolving credit facility of $3,000. In addition to the Credit Agreement, Arconic has a number of other credit agreements that provide a combined borrowing capacity of $640 as of December 31, 2019. See Note P to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Form 10-K.

Arconic’s costs of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions but also by the short- and long-term debt ratings assigned to Arconic by the major credit rating agencies.

On May 1, 2017, Standard and Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P) affirmed Arconic’s long-term debt at BBB-, an investment grade rating, with a stable outlook, and its short-term debt at A-3. On February 7, 2019, S&P placed the rating on negative credit watch and, subsequently, on April 26, S&P affirmed the long-term debt rating at BBB- but changed the outlook to negative. On January 28, 2020, S&P affirmed the long-term debt rating at BBB- but changed the outlook to stable in expectation of the separation impact. On November 1, 2016, Moody’s Investor Service (Moody’s) downgraded Arconic’s long-term debt rating 

44
from Ba1, a non-investment grade, to Ba2 with a stable outlook and its short-term debt rating from Speculative Grade Liquidity-1 to Speculative Grade Liquidity-2. Moody’s ratings and outlooks were affirmed on November 2, 2017, October 8, 2018, and October 9, 2019. On January 24, 2020, Moody’s affirmed the long-term debt rating at Ba2 but changed the outlook to negative. On April 21, 2016, Fitch affirmed Arconic’s long-term debt rating at BB+, a non-investment grade, and short-term debt at B. Additionally, Fitch changed the outlook from positive to evolving. On July 7, 2016, Fitch changed the outlook from evolving to stable (ratings and outlook were affirmed on July 3, 2017). On September 27, 2018, Fitch changed the outlook from stable to positive (ratings and outlook were affirmed on October 8, 2019).

Investing Activities

Cash provided from investing activities was $583 in 2019 compared with $565 in 2018 and $1,320 in 2017.

The source of cash in 2019 was primarily due to cash receipts from sold receivables of $995, proceeds from the sale of assets and businesses of $103 (see Note S to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data), and the sale of fixed income securities of $73, partially offset by capital expenditures of $586, including expansion of a wheels plant in Hungary, expansion of aerospace airfoils capacity in the United States, and transition of the Tennessee plant to industrial production. 

The source of cash in 2018 included cash receipts from sold receivables of $1,016 and proceeds from the sale of the Texarkana, Texas rolling mill and cast house of $302, partially offset by capital expenditures of $768, including the horizontal heat treat furnace at the Davenport, Iowa plant and an expansion of a wheels plant in Szekesfehervar, Hungary.

The source of cash in 2017 included proceeds of $888 from the sale of a portion of Arconic’s investment in Alcoa Corporation common stock, cash receipts from sold receivables of $792, and the receipt of proceeds from the sale of the Yadkin Hydroelectric Project of $243 (see Note U to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Form 10-K), somewhat offset by cash used for capital expenditures of $596, including the aerospace expansion (very thick plate stretcher and horizontal heat treat furnace) at the Davenport, Iowa plant and a titanium aluminide furnace at the Niles, Ohio facility, and the injection of $10 into the rolling business in Italy prior to its sale.

Noncash Financing and Investing Activities

On October 2, 2017, all outstanding 24,975,978 depositary shares (each depositary share representing a 1/10th interest in a share of the mandatory convertible preferred stock) were converted at a rate of 1.56996 into 39,211,286 common shares; 24,022 depositary shares were previously tendered for early conversion into 31,420 shares of Arconic common stock. No gain or loss was recognized associated with this equity transaction. See Note H to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Form 10-K.

In the second quarter of 2017, the Company completed a Debt-for-Equity Exchange with the Investment Banks for the remaining portion of Arconic’s retained interest in Alcoa Corporation common stock for a portion of the Company’s outstanding notes held by the Investment Banks for $465 including accrued and unpaid interest. See Note P to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Form 10-K.

45
Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Contractual Obligations. Arconic is required to make future payments under various contracts, including long-term purchase obligations, financing arrangements, and lease agreements. Arconic also has commitments to fund its pension plans, provide payments for other postretirement benefit plans, and fund capital projects. As of December 31, 2019, a summary of Arconic’s outstanding contractual obligations is as follows (these contractual obligations are grouped in the same manner as they are classified in the Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows in order to provide a better understanding of the nature of the obligations and to provide a basis for comparison to historical information):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Obligations for Operating Activities

Energy-related purchase obligations consist primarily of electricity and natural gas contracts with expiration dates ranging from one year to five years. Raw material purchase obligations consist mostly of aluminum, titanium sponge, and various other metals with expiration dates ranging from less than one year to six years. Many of these purchase obligations contain variable pricing components, and, as a result, actual cash payments may differ from the estimates provided in the preceding table. 

Operating leases represent multi-year obligations for certain land and buildings, plant equipment, vehicles, and computer equipment.

Interest related to total debt is based on interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2019 and is calculated on debt with maturities that extend to 2042. 

Estimated minimum required pension funding and postretirement benefit payments are based on actuarial estimates using current assumptions for discount rates, long-term rate of return on plan assets, and health care cost trend rates, among others. It is Arconic’s policy to fund amounts for pension plans sufficient to meet the minimum requirements set forth in applicable country benefits laws and tax laws. Periodically, Arconic contributes additional amounts as deemed appropriate. The estimates reported in the preceding table include amounts sufficient to meet the minimum required, along with approximately $60 of contributions in 2020 related to actions designed to reduce future obligations. Arconic has determined that it is not practicable to present pension funding and other postretirement benefit payments beyond 2024 and 2029, respectively.

Layoff and other restructuring payments to be paid within one year primarily relate to severance costs, special layoff benefit payments, and lease termination costs.

Deferred revenue arrangements require Arconic to deliver product to certain customers over the specified contract period (through 2020 for a sheet and plate contract and 2021 for certain aerospace parts contracts). While these obligations are not expected to result in cash payments, they represent contractual obligations for which the Company would be obligated if the specified product deliveries could not be made.

46
Uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken on an income tax return may result in additional payments to tax authorities. The amount in the preceding table includes interest and penalties accrued related to such positions as of December 31, 2019. The total amount of uncertain tax positions is included in the “Thereafter” column as the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing of potential future payments. If a tax authority agrees with the tax position taken or expected to be taken or the applicable statute of limitations expires, then additional payments will not be necessary.

Obligations for Financing Activities

Arconic has historically paid quarterly dividends on its preferred and common stock. Including dividends on preferred stock, Arconic paid $57 in dividends to shareholders during 2019. Because all dividends are subject to approval by Arconic’s Board of Directors, amounts are not included in the preceding table unless such authorization has occurred. As of December 31, 2019, there were 432,855,183 shares of outstanding common stock and 546,024 shares of outstanding Class A preferred stock. In 2019, the preferred stock dividend was $3.75 per share and the common stock dividend was $0.12 per share.

Obligations for Investing Activities

Capital projects in the preceding table only include amounts approved by management as of December 31, 2019. Funding levels may vary in future years based on anticipated construction schedules of the projects. It is expected that significant expansion projects will be funded through various sources, including cash provided from operations. Total capital expenditures are anticipated to be less than four percent of sales in 2020.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

At December 31, 2019, Arconic had outstanding bank guarantees related to tax matters, outstanding debt, workers’ compensation, environmental obligations, energy contracts, and customs duties, among others. The total amount committed under these guarantees, which expire at various dates between 2020 and 2040 was $31 at December 31, 2019.

Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement between Arconic and Alcoa Corporation, Arconic was required to provide certain guarantees for Alcoa Corporation, which had a combined fair value of $9 and $6 at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and were included in Other noncurrent liabilities and deferred credits on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet. Arconic was required to provide guarantees related to two long-term supply agreements for energy for Alcoa Corporation facilities in the event of an Alcoa Corporation payment default. In October 2017, Alcoa Corporation announced that it had terminated one of the two agreements, the electricity contract with Luminant Generation Company LLC that was tied to its Rockdale Operations, effective as of October 1, 2017. As a result of the termination of the Rockdale electricity contract, Arconic recorded income of $25 in the fourth quarter of 2017 associated with reversing the fair value of the electricity contract guarantee. For the remaining long-term supply agreement, Arconic is required to provide a guarantee up to an estimated present value amount of approximately $1,353 and $1,087 at December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, in the event of an Alcoa Corporation payment default. This guarantee expires in 2047. For this guarantee, subject to its provisions, Arconic is secondarily liable in the event of a payment default by Alcoa Corporation. Arconic currently views the risk of an Alcoa Corporation payment default on its obligations under the contract to be remote. In December 2019, Arconic entered into a one-year insurance policy with a limit of $80 relating to the remaining long-term energy supply agreement. The premium is expected to be paid by Alcoa Corporation. The decision to enter into a claims purchase agreement or insurance policy will be made on an annual basis going forward.

Arconic has outstanding letters of credit primarily related to workers’ compensation, environmental obligations, and leasing obligations. The total amount committed under these letters of credit, which automatically renew or expire at various dates, mostly in 2020, was $142 at December 31, 2019.

Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Arconic was required to retain letters of credit of $52 that had previously been provided related to both Arconic and Alcoa Corporation workers’ compensation claims which occurred prior to November 1, 2016. Alcoa Corporation workers’ compensation claims and letter of credit fees paid by Arconic are being proportionally billed to and are being fully reimbursed by Alcoa Corporation.

Arconic has outstanding surety bonds primarily related to tax matters, contract performance, workers’ compensation, environmental-related matters, and customs duties. The total amount committed under these surety bonds, which expire at various dates, primarily in 2020, was $50 at December 31, 2019.

Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Arconic was required to provide surety bonds related to Alcoa Corporation workers’ compensation claims which occurred prior to November 1, 2016 and, as a result, Arconic has $24 in outstanding surety bonds relating to these liabilities. Alcoa Corporation workers’ compensation claims and surety bond fees paid by Arconic are being proportionally billed to and are being fully reimbursed by Alcoa Corporation.

47
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make certain judgments, estimates, and assumptions regarding uncertainties that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosed in the accompanying Notes. Areas that require significant judgments, estimates, and assumptions include accounting for environmental and litigation matters; the testing of goodwill, other intangible assets, and properties, plants, and equipment for impairment; estimating fair value of businesses acquired or divested; pension plans and other postretirement benefits obligations; stock-based compensation; and income taxes.

Management uses historical experience and all available information to make these judgments, estimates, and assumptions, and actual results may differ from those used to prepare the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements at any given time. Despite these inherent limitations, management believes that Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes provide a meaningful and fair perspective of the Company.

A summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies is included in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management believes that the application of these policies on a consistent basis enables the Company to provide the users of the Consolidated Financial Statements with useful and reliable information about the Company’s operating results and financial condition.

Environmental Matters. Expenditures for current operations are expensed or capitalized, as appropriate. Expenditures relating to existing conditions caused by past operations, which will not contribute to future sales, are expensed. Liabilities are recorded when remediation costs are probable and can be reasonably estimated. The liability may include costs such as site investigations, consultant fees, feasibility studies, outside contractors, and monitoring expenses. Estimates are generally not discounted or reduced by potential claims for recovery. Claims for recovery are recognized when probable and as agreements are reached with third parties. The estimates also include costs related to other potentially responsible parties to the extent that Arconic has reason to believe such parties will not fully pay their proportionate share. The liability is continuously reviewed and adjusted to reflect current remediation progress, prospective estimates of required activity, and other factors that may be relevant, including changes in technology or regulations.

Litigation Matters. For asserted claims and assessments, liabilities are recorded when an unfavorable outcome of a matter is deemed to be probable and the loss is reasonably estimable. Management determines the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome based on many factors such as the nature of the matter, available defenses and case strategy, progress of the matter, views and opinions of legal counsel and other advisors, applicability and success of appeals processes, and the outcome of similar historical matters, among others. Once an unfavorable outcome is deemed probable, management weighs the probability of estimated losses, and the most reasonable loss estimate is recorded. If an unfavorable outcome of a matter is deemed to be reasonably possible, then the matter is disclosed and no liability is recorded. With respect to unasserted claims or assessments, management must first determine that the probability that an assertion will be made is likely, then, a determination as to the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to reasonably estimate the potential loss is made. Legal matters are reviewed on a continuous basis to determine if there has been a change in management’s judgment regarding the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome or the estimate of a potential loss.

Goodwill. Goodwill is not amortized; instead, it is reviewed for impairment annually (in the fourth quarter) or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist or if a decision is made to sell or realign a business. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. Such indicators may include deterioration in general economic conditions, negative developments in equity and credit markets, adverse changes in the markets in which an entity operates, increases in input costs that have a negative effect on earnings and cash flows, or a trend of negative or declining cash flows over multiple periods, among others. The fair value that could be realized in an actual transaction may differ from that used to evaluate the impairment of goodwill.

Goodwill is allocated among and evaluated for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. For 2019, Arconic had seven reporting units, of which four were included in the EP&F segment (Fastening Systems, Engineered Structures, Engine Products, and Forged Wheels), and three were included in the GRP segment (Global Rolled Products, Aluminum Extrusions, and BCS.)

In reviewing goodwill for impairment, an entity has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not (greater than 50%) that the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If an entity elects to perform a qualitative assessment and determines that an impairment is more likely than not, the entity is then required to perform the quantitative impairment test (described below), otherwise no further analysis is required. An entity also may elect not to perform the qualitative assessment and, instead, proceed directly to the quantitative impairment test. The ultimate outcome of the goodwill impairment 

48
review for a reporting unit should be the same whether an entity chooses to perform the qualitative assessment or proceeds directly to the quantitative impairment test.

Arconic determines annually, based on facts and circumstances, which of its reporting units will be subject to the qualitative assessment. For those reporting units where a qualitative assessment is either not performed or for which the conclusion is that an impairment is more likely than not, a quantitative impairment test will be performed. Arconic’s policy is that a quantitative impairment test be performed for each reporting unit at least once during every three-year period.

Under the qualitative assessment, various events and circumstances (or factors) that would affect the estimated fair value of a reporting unit are identified (similar to impairment indicators above). These factors are then classified by the type of impact they would have on the estimated fair value using positive, neutral, and adverse categories based on current business conditions. Additionally, an assessment of the level of impact that a particular factor would have on the estimated fair value is determined using high, medium, and low weighting. Furthermore, management considers the results of the most recent quantitative impairment test completed for a reporting unit and compares the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) between the current and prior years for each reporting unit.

During the 2019 annual review of goodwill, management proceeded directly to the quantitative impairment test for all seven of its reporting units. The estimated fair values for each of the seven reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values by more than 50%, thus, there was no goodwill impairment. Under the quantitative impairment test, the evaluation of impairment involves comparing the current fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. Arconic uses a discounted cash flow (DCF) model to estimate the current fair value of its reporting units when testing for impairment, as management believes forecasted cash flows are the best indicator of such fair value. A number of significant assumptions and estimates are involved in the application of the DCF model to forecast operating cash flows, including sales growth (volumes and pricing), production costs, capital spending, and discount rate. Most of these assumptions vary significantly among the reporting units. Cash flow forecasts are generally based on approved business unit operating plans for the early years and historical relationships in later years. The WACC rate for the individual reporting units is estimated with the assistance of valuation experts. Arconic would recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value without exceeding the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.

In the first quarter of 2019, management transferred its aluminum extrusions business (Aluminum Extrusions) from Engineered Structures within the EP&F segment to the GRP segment, based on synergies with the GRP segment including similar customer base, technologies, and manufacturing capabilities. Management assessed and concluded that the remaining Engineered Structures business unit and the Aluminum Extrusions business unit represent reporting units. As a result of the reorganization, goodwill of $110 was reallocated from Engineered Structures to Aluminum Extrusions and these reporting units were evaluated for impairment during the first quarter of 2019. The estimated fair value of each of these reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying value; thus, there was no goodwill impairment. In the second quarter of 2019, management transferred its castings operations from Engineered Structures to Engine Products within the EP&F segment based on process expertise for investment castings that existed within Engine Products. As a result, goodwill of $105 was reallocated from Engineered Structures to Engine Products and these reporting units were evaluated for impairment during the second quarter of 2019. The estimated fair value of each of these reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying value; thus, there was no impairment. As a result of the elimination of the TCS segment in the third quarter of 2019 (see Segment Information above), the Company transferred $7 of Forged Wheels goodwill and $68 of BCS goodwill from the TCS segment to the EP&F and GRP segments, respectively. Both Forged Wheels and BCS are considered reporting units.

In the second quarter of 2019, as a result of the decline in the forecasted financial performance and related impairment of long-lived assets of the Disks asset group within Engine Products, the Company also performed an interim impairment evaluation of goodwill for Engine Products. The estimated fair value of the reporting unit was substantially in excess of its carrying value; thus, there was no impairment of goodwill.

In connection with the interim impairment evaluation of long-lived assets for the Disks asset group within Engine Products in the second quarter of 2018, which resulted from a decline in forecasted financial performance for the business in connection with its updated three-year strategic plan, the Company also performed an interim impairment evaluation of goodwill for Engine Products. The estimated fair value of the reporting unit was substantially in excess of the carrying value; thus, there was no impairment of goodwill.

Goodwill impairment tests in 2018 and 2017 indicated that goodwill was not impaired for any of the Company’s reporting units, except for the AFE business (the AFE operations were realigned and transferred to Aluminum Extrusions and Engine Products) whose estimated fair value was lower than its carrying value. As such, Arconic recorded an impairment for the full amount of goodwill in the AFE reporting unit of $719 in 2017. The decrease in fair value of AFE was primarily due to unfavorable performance that was impacting operating margins and a higher discount rate due to an increase in the risk-free rate of return, while the carrying value increased compared to prior year.

49
Properties, Plants, and Equipment and Other Intangible Assets. Properties, plants, and equipment and Other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets (asset group) may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets is determined by comparing the estimated undiscounted net cash flows of the operations related to the assets (asset group) to their carrying amount. An impairment loss would be recognized when the carrying amount of the assets (asset group) exceeds the estimated undiscounted net cash flows. The amount of the impairment loss to be recorded is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the assets (asset group) over their fair value, with fair value determined using the best information available, which generally is a DCF model. The determination of what constitutes an asset group, the associated estimated undiscounted net cash flows, and the estimated useful lives of the assets also require significant judgments.

During the second quarter of 2019, the Company updated its five-year strategic plan and determined that there was a decline in the forecasted financial performance for the Disks asset group within the EP&F segment. As such, the Company evaluated the recoverability of the Disks asset group long-lived assets by comparing the carrying value to the undiscounted cash flows of the Disks asset group. The carrying value exceeded the undiscounted cash flows and therefore the Disks asset group long-lived assets were deemed to be impaired. The impairment charge was measured as the amount of carrying value in excess of fair value of the long-lived assets, with fair value determined using a DCF model and a combination of sales comparison and cost approach valuation methods including an estimate for economic obsolescence. The impairment charge of $428 recorded in the second quarter of 2019 impacted properties, plants, and equipment; intangible assets; and certain other noncurrent assets by $198, $197, and $33, respectively. The impairment charge was recorded in Restructuring and other charges in the Statement of Consolidated Operations.

During the second quarter of 2018, the Company updated its three-year strategic plan and determined that there was a decline in the forecasted financial performance for the Disks asset group within the EP&F segment. As such, the Company evaluated the recoverability of the long-lived assets by comparing their carrying value of approximately $515 to the estimated undiscounted net cash flows of the Disks asset group, resulting in an estimated fair value in excess of their carrying value of approximately 13%; thus, there was no impairment.

Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale. The fair values of all businesses to be divested are estimated using accepted valuation techniques such as a DCF model, valuations performed by third parties, earnings multiples, or indicative bids, when available. A number of significant estimates and assumptions are involved in the application of these techniques, including the forecasting of markets and market share, sales volumes and prices, costs and expenses, and multiple other factors. Management considers historical experience and all available information at the time the estimates are made; however, the fair value that is ultimately realized upon the divestiture of a business may differ from the estimated fair value reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits. Liabilities and expenses for pension and other postretirement benefits are determined using actuarial methodologies and incorporate significant assumptions, including the interest rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and several assumptions relating to the employee workforce (health care cost trend rates, retirement age, and mortality).

The interest rate used to discount future estimated liabilities is determined using a Company-specific yield curve model (above-median) developed with the assistance of an external actuary. The cash flows of the plans’ projected benefit obligations are discounted using a single equivalent rate derived from yields on high quality corporate bonds, which represent a broad diversification of issuers in various sectors, including finance and banking, industrials, transportation, and utilities, among others. The yield curve model parallels the plans’ projected cash flows, which have an average duration of 10 years. The underlying cash flows of the bonds included in the model exceed the cash flows needed to satisfy the Company’s plans’ obligations multiple times. In 2019, 2018, and 2017, the discount rate used to determine benefit obligations for U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans was 3.30%, 4.35%, and 3.75%, respectively. The impact on the liabilities of a change in the discount rate of 1/4 of 1% would be approximately $220 and either a charge or credit of approximately $1 to after-tax earnings in the following year.

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is generally applied to a five-year market-related value of plan assets (a fair value at the plan measurement date is used for certain non-U.S. plans). The process used by management to develop this assumption is one that relies on a combination of historical asset return information and forward-looking returns by asset class. As it relates to historical asset return information, management focuses on various historical moving averages when developing this assumption. While consideration is given to recent performance and historical returns, the assumption represents a long-term, prospective return. Management also incorporates expected future returns on current and planned asset allocations using information from various external investment managers and consultants, as well as management’s own judgment.

For 2019, 2018, and 2017, management used 7.00%, 7.00%, and 7.75%, respectively, as its expected long-term rate of return, which was based on the prevailing and planned strategic asset allocations, as well as estimates of future returns by asset class. These rates fell within the respective range of the 20-year moving average of actual performance and the expected future 

50
return developed by asset class. For 2020, management anticipates that 7.00% will be the expected long-term rate of return. The decrease of 75 basis points in the 2018 expected long-term rate of return was due to a decrease in the expected return by asset class and the 20-year moving average. A change in the assumption for the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of 1/4 of 1% would impact after-tax earnings by approximately $9 for 2020.

In 2019, a net loss of $388 (after-tax) was recorded in other comprehensive loss, primarily due to the decrease in the discount rate of 105 basis points, which was partially offset by the plan asset performance that was greater than expected, and by the amortization of actuarial losses. In 2018, a net loss of $114 (after-tax) was recorded in other comprehensive loss, primarily due to the impact of the adoption of new accounting guidance that permits a reclassification to Retained earnings (accumulated deficit) for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, as well as the plan asset performance that was less than expected, which were partially offset by the increase in the discount rate of 60 basis points and the amortization of actuarial losses. In 2017, a net loss of $220 (after-tax) was recorded in other comprehensive loss, primarily due to the decrease in the discount rate of 45 basis points and plan asset performance less than expected, which were partially offset by the amortization of actuarial losses. 

Stock-Based Compensation. Arconic recognizes compensation expense for employee equity grants using the non-substantive vesting period approach, in which the expense is recognized ratably over the requisite service period based on the grant date fair value. Forfeitures are accounted for as they occur. The fair value of new stock options is estimated on the date of grant using a lattice-pricing model. The fair value of performance awards containing a market condition is valued using a Monte Carlo valuation model. Determining the fair value at the grant date requires judgment, including estimates for the average risk-free interest rate, dividend yield, volatility, and exercise behavior. These assumptions may differ significantly between grant dates because of changes in the actual results of these inputs that occur over time.

Compensation expense recorded in 2019, 2018, and 2017 was $78 ($70 after-tax), $50 ($39 after-tax), and $54 ($36 after-tax), respectively. 

Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes. Under this approach, the provision for income taxes represents income taxes paid or payable (or received or receivable) for the current year plus the change in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid, and result from differences between the financial and tax bases of Arconic’s assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when enacted.

The 2017 Act created a new requirement that certain income earned by foreign subsidiaries, Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (GILTI), must be included in the gross income of the U.S. shareholder. The 2017 Act also established the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax (BEAT). Until regulations are finalized, judgement will be required to apply preliminary guidance, including proposed regulations, to Arconic’s facts and circumstances.

Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, management considers all potential sources of taxable income, including income available in carryback periods, future reversals of taxable temporary differences, projections of taxable income, and income from tax planning strategies, as well as all available positive and negative evidence. Positive evidence includes factors such as a history of profitable operations, projections of future profitability within the carryforward period, including from tax planning strategies, and Arconic’s experience with similar operations. Existing favorable contracts and the ability to sell products into established markets are additional positive evidence. Negative evidence includes items such as cumulative losses, projections of future losses, or carryforward periods that are not long enough to allow for the utilization of a deferred tax asset based on existing projections of income. Deferred tax assets for which no valuation allowance is recorded may not be realized upon changes in facts and circumstances, resulting in a future charge to establish a valuation allowance. Existing valuation allowances are re-examined under the same standards of positive and negative evidence. If it is determined that it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will be realized, the appropriate amount of the valuation allowance, if any, is released. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are also re-measured to reflect changes in underlying tax rates due to law changes and the granting and lapse of tax holidays.

In 2018, Arconic made a final accounting policy election to apply a tax law ordering approach when considering the need for a valuation allowance on net operating losses expected to offset GILTI income inclusions. Under this approach, reductions in cash tax savings are not considered as part of the valuation allowance assessment. Instead, future GILTI inclusions are considered a source of taxable income that support the realizability of deferred tax assets.

Tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return are recorded when such benefits meet a more likely than not threshold. Otherwise, these tax benefits are recorded when a tax position has been effectively settled, which means that the statute of limitations has expired or the appropriate taxing authority has completed their examination even though the statute of limitations remains open. Interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are 

51
recognized as part of the provision for income taxes and are accrued beginning in the period that such interest and penalties would be applicable under relevant tax law until such time that the related tax benefits are recognized.

Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance. See the Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance section of Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Form 10-K.

Recently Issued Accounting Guidance. See the Recently Issued Accounting Guidance section of Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Form 10-K.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.