Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or MD&A, provides management’s views on our financial condition and results of operations, should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto, and includes the following sections:

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

​

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

We report our financial results in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, and also communicate with investors using certain non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for or superior to, the comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement presentation of our financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Based upon feedback from investors and financial analysts, we believe that the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures we provide are useful to their assessments of our performance and operating trends, as well as liquidity. 

Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain events, activities or strategic decisions. The accounting effects of these events, activities or decisions, which are included in the GAAP financial measures, may make it difficult to assess our underlying performance in a single period. By excluding the accounting effects, positive or negative, of certain items (e.g., restructuring charges, legal settlements, certain effects of strategic transactions and related costs, losses from debt extinguishments, gains or losses from curtailment or settlement of pension obligations, gains or losses on sales of certain assets, and other items), we believe that we are providing meaningful supplemental information that facilitates an understanding of our core operating results and liquidity measures. While some of the items we exclude from GAAP financial measures recur, they tend to be disparate in amount, frequency, or timing.

We use these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate trends in our underlying performance, as well as to facilitate comparison to the results of competitors for a single period. 

We use the following non-GAAP financial measures in this MD&A:

●Sales change ex. currency refers to the increase or decrease in net sales, excluding the estimated impact of foreign currency translation, and, where applicable, currency adjustment for transitional reporting of highly inflationary economies (Argentina). Segment results are also adjusted for the reclassification of sales between segments. The estimated impact of foreign currency translation is calculated on a constant currency basis, with prior period results translated at current period average exchange rates to exclude the effect of currency fluctuations. 

●Organic sales change refers to sales change ex. currency, excluding the estimated impact of product line exits, acquisitions and divestitures, and, where applicable, an extra week in our fiscal year. 

We believe that sales change ex. currency and organic sales change assist investors in evaluating the sales change from the ongoing activities of our businesses and enhance their ability to evaluate our results from period to period.

●Free cash flow refers to cash flow provided by operating activities, less payments for property, plant and equipment, software and other deferred charges, plus proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment, plus (minus) net proceeds from insurance and sales (purchases) of investments. Free cash flow is also adjusted for the cash contributions related to the termination of our U.S. pension plan. We believe that free cash flow assists investors by showing the amount of cash we have available for debt reductions, dividends, share repurchases, and acquisitions. 

●Operational working capital as a percentage of annualized current quarter net sales refers to trade accounts receivable and inventories, net of accounts payable, and excludes cash and cash equivalents, short-term borrowings, deferred taxes, other current assets and other current liabilities, as well as net current assets or liabilities held-for-sale divided by annualized current quarter net sales. We believe that operational working capital as a percentage of annualized current quarter net sales assists investors in assessing our working capital requirements because it excludes the impact of fluctuations attributable to our financing and other activities (which affect cash and cash equivalents, deferred taxes, other current assets, and other current liabilities) that tend to be disparate in amount, frequency, or timing, and that may increase the volatility of working capital as a percentage of sales from period to period. The items excluded from this measure are not significantly influenced by our day-to-day activities managed at the operating level and do not necessarily reflect the underlying trends in our operations.

​

4 Avery Dennison Corporation | 2019 Annual Report 

OVERVIEW AND OUTLOOK

Fiscal Year

Normally, our fiscal years consist of 52 weeks, but every fifth or sixth fiscal year consists of 53 weeks. Our 2019, 2018, and 2017 fiscal years consisted of 52-week periods ending December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018, and December 30, 2017, respectively.

Net Sales

The factors impacting the reported sales change are shown in the table below.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

In 2019, net sales increased on an organic basis due to a combination of higher volume/mix and pricing actions. In 2018, net sales increased on an organic basis primarily due to higher volume.

Net Income

Net income decreased from approximately $467 million in 2018 to approximately $304 million in 2019. The major factors affecting the change in net income in 2019 compared to 2018 were:

●Pension plan settlement charges, net of related tax benefits 

●Higher employee-related costs

●Impact of foreign currency translation

Offsetting factors:

●Benefits from productivity initiatives, including savings from restructuring actions, net of transition costs

●Tax benefit from a discrete foreign structuring transaction

U.S. Pension Plan Termination

In July 2018, our Board of Directors (“Board”) approved the termination of the Avery Dennison Pension Plan (the “ADPP”), a U.S. defined benefit plan, effective as of September 28, 2018. In connection with the termination, we contributed $200 million to the ADPP in August 2018; settled approximately $152 million of ADPP liabilities during the fourth quarter of 2018 through lump-sum payments from existing plan assets to eligible participants who elected to receive them; and recorded approximately $85 million of non-cash charges associated with these settlements, partially offset by related tax benefits of approximately $19 million. During 2019, we settled approximately $749 million of ADPP liabilities by entering into an agreement to purchase annuities primarily from American General Life Insurance Company (“AGL”). This agreement covered approximately 8,300 active and former employees and their beneficiaries, with AGL assuming the future annuity payments for these individuals, commencing April 1, 2019. Additionally, we settled approximately $4 million of ADPP liabilities through a combination of annuities and direct funding to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation for the remaining approximately 200 former employees and their beneficiaries. We contributed approximately $10 million of cash during fiscal 2019 to the ADPP to cover costs associated with the final settlement of these liabilities. These settlements resulted in approximately $444 million of pretax charges in 2019, partially offset by related tax benefits of approximately $179 million.

Refer to Note 6, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

Cost Reduction Actions

2019/2020 Actions

During fiscal year 2019, we recorded $25.2 million in restructuring charges related to our 2019/2020 actions. These charges consisted of severance and related costs for the reduction of approximately 370 positions, as well as asset impairment charges.

2018/2019 Actions

In April 2018, we approved a restructuring plan (the “2018 Plan”) to consolidate the European footprint of our Label and Graphic Materials (“LGM”) reportable segment, which reduced headcount by approximately 390 positions, including temporary labor, from the closure of a manufacturing facility. This reduction was partially offset by headcount additions in other locations, resulting in a net reduction of approximately 150 positions. During fiscal year 2019, we recorded a net $2.3 million in restructuring reversals related to the 2018 Plan. During fiscal year 2018, we recorded $55.2 million in restructuring charges, net of reversals. The cumulative charges associated with the 2018 Plan consisted of severance and related costs for the headcount reduction, as well as asset impairment charges. The activities related to the 2018 Plan were substantially completed as of the end of the second quarter of 2019.

Avery Dennison Corporation | 2019 Annual Report 5 

In addition to restructuring charges recorded under the 2018 Plan, we recorded $28.2 million in restructuring charges during fiscal year 2019 related to other 2018/2019 actions. These charges consisted of severance and related costs for the reduction of approximately 490 positions, as well as asset impairment charges. In the fourth quarter 2018, we recorded $4.2 million in restructuring charges relating to these other 2018/2019 actions. These charges consisted of severance and related costs for the reduction of approximately 85 positions, as well as impairment charges.

2015/2016 Actions

During fiscal year 2018, we recorded $14.3 million in restructuring charges, net of reversals, related to our 2015/2016 actions. These charges consisted of severance and related costs for the reduction of approximately 625 positions, lease cancellation costs, and asset impairment charges. The activities and related charges and payments related to the 2015/2016 actions were substantially completed in 2018.

Impact of Cost Reduction Actions

During fiscal year 2019, we realized approximately $50 million in savings, net of transition costs, primarily from our 2018/2019 actions. During fiscal year 2018, we realized approximately $30 million in savings, net of transition costs, primarily from our 2015/2016 actions. 

Restructuring charges were included in “Other expense, net” in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Refer to Note 13, “Cost Reduction Actions,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

Acquisitions

In November 2019, we announced our agreement to acquire Smartrac's Transponder (RFID Inlay) division ("Smartrac"), a manufacturer of radio-frequency identification (“RFID”) products, for a purchase price of approximately $250 million (€225 million), subject to customary adjustments. We expect to complete this acquisition in the first quarter of 2020.

During 2017, we completed the stock acquisitions of Yongle Tape Ltd. (“Yongle Tape”) and Finesse Medical Limited, and the net asset acquisition of Hanita Coatings Rural Cooperative Association Limited and stock acquisition of certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the “2017 Acquisitions”), which were not material, individually or in the aggregate, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Accounting Guidance Updates

Refer to Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for this information. 

Cash Flow

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

In 2019, cash flow provided by operating activities increased compared to 2018 primarily due to lower pension plan contributions, improved operational working capital, and lower incentive compensation payments, partially offset by higher restructuring payments. In 2019, free cash flow increased compared to 2018 primarily due to higher cash provided by operating activities adjusted for our contribution to the ADPP, partially offset by net proceeds from insurance and (purchases) sales of investments.

Outlook

Certain factors that we believe may contribute to our 2020 results are described below:

●We expect our net sales to increase by 4.0% to 5.5%, including the impacts of the Smartrac acquisition and the extra week in our 2020 fiscal year.

●We anticipate incremental savings from restructuring, net of transition costs, of approximately $30 million to $40 million.

●We estimate cash restructuring charges of approximately $20 million.

●We expect our full year effective tax rate to be in the mid-twenty percent range. 

●We anticipate capital and software expenditures of $220 million to $230 million. 

​

6 Avery Dennison Corporation | 2019 Annual Report 

ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Income before Taxes

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

Gross Profit Margin

Gross profit margin in 2019 increased slightly compared to 2018 reflecting benefits from productivity initiatives, including material re-engineering and savings from restructuring actions, net of transition costs, partially offset by the net impact of higher employee- related costs and unfavorable volume/mix.

Gross profit margin in 2018 decreased compared to 2017 reflecting the net impact of pricing and raw material inflation and higher employee-related costs, as well as growth investments, partially offset by the benefits from productivity initiatives, including savings from restructuring actions, net of transition costs.

Marketing, General and Administrative Expense

Marketing, general and administrative expense decreased in 2019 compared to 2018 reflecting the benefits from productivity initiatives, including savings from restructuring actions, net of transition costs, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by higher employee-related costs and growth investments.

Marketing, general and administrative expense increased in 2018 compared to 2017 reflecting the impact of acquisitions and other growth investments and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by the benefits from productivity initiatives, including savings from restructuring, net of transition costs.

Other Expense, net

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

Refer to Note 13, “Cost Reduction Actions,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

Interest Expense

Interest expense increased approximately $17.3 million in 2019 compared to 2018, reflecting additional interest costs related to the $500 million of senior notes we issued in December 2018.

Interest expense decreased approximately $4.5 million in 2018 compared to 2017, reflecting the repayment of $250 million of senior notes in October 2017, which was financed using commercial paper borrowed at a lower interest rate. 

Other Non-Operating Expense, Net

Other non-operating expense, net increased in 2019 compared to 2018, which reflected approximately $444 million of final settlement charges related to the termination of the ADPP.

Other non-operating expense, net increased in 2018 compared to 2017, which reflected approximately $94 million of settlement charges related to the termination of the ADPP, as well as losses associated with two U.S. nonqualified benefit plans and two of our international benefit plans, partially offset by a higher expected return on plan assets in certain of our international defined benefit pension plans. 

Refer to Note 6, "Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits," and Note 14, "Taxes Based on Income," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

Avery Dennison Corporation | 2019 Annual Report 7 

Net Income and Earnings per Share

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

(Benefit from) Provision for Income Taxes

Our effective tax rate in 2019 decreased compared to 2018 primarily due to the tax effects of the settlement charges associated with the termination of the ADPP and a discrete foreign structuring transaction.

Our effective tax rate in 2018 decreased compared to 2017 primarily due to tax benefits related to adjustments to our 2017 U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA") provisional amount and a discrete foreign tax planning action, while our effective tax rate in 2017 included net tax charges comprised of our TCJA provisional amount.

We expect our effective tax rate for 2020 to be in the mid-twenty percent range. Our effective tax rate can vary from period to period due to the recognition of discrete events, such as changes in tax reserves, settlements of income tax audits, changes in tax laws and regulations, return-to-provision adjustments, and tax impacts related to stock-based payments, as well as recurring factors, such as changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates and the execution of tax planning strategies.

Refer to Note 14, “Taxes Based on Income,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY REPORTABLE SEGMENT

Operating income refers to income before taxes, interest and other non-operating expenses, net.

Label and Graphic Materials

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

Net Sales

The factors impacting reported sales change are shown in the table below.

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

(1)Total does not sum due to rounding

In 2019, net sales increased on an organic basis primarily due to prior year pricing actions. On an organic basis, net sales increased low-single digits in emerging markets and were comparable to prior year in North America and Western Europe.

In 2018, net sales increased on an organic basis due to higher volume and pricing actions. Net sales increased on an organic basis at mid-single digit rates in emerging markets and North America and at a low-single digit rate in Western Europe.

Operating Income

Operating income increased in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to benefits from productivity initiatives, including material re-engineering and savings from restructuring actions, net of transition costs, and lower restructuring charges, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation and the combined effect of volume and mix.

Operating income decreased in 2018 compared to 2017 reflecting higher restructuring charges, employee-related costs and the net impact of pricing and raw material costs, excluding the effects of foreign currency, partially offset by the combined effect of volume and mix, as well as a net benefit from changes in foreign currency. 

8 Avery Dennison Corporation | 2019 Annual Report 

Retail Branding and Information Solutions

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

Net Sales

The factors impacting reported sales change are shown in the table below.

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

In 2019, net sales increased on an organic basis primarily due to continued strength in RFID solutions and external embellishments.

In 2018, net sales increased on an organic basis driven by strength in both RFID solutions and the base business.

Operating Income 

Operating income increased in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to higher volume and benefits from productivity initiatives, including savings from restructuring actions, net of transition costs, partially offset by higher employee-related costs.

Operating income increased in 2018 compared to 2017 reflecting higher volume, the benefits from productivity initiatives, including savings from restructuring actions, net of transition costs, and lower amortization of intangible assets resulting from business acquisitions, partially offset by higher employee-related costs and growth investments.

Industrial and Healthcare Materials

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

Net Sales

The factors impacting reported sales change are shown in the table below.

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

In 2019, net sales were comparable to prior year on an organic basis.

In 2018, net sales increased on an organic basis primarily due to higher volume in industrial categories. 

Operating Income

Operating income decreased in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to higher restructuring charges and a prior year reversal of acquisition-related contingent consideration, as well as higher employee-related costs, largely offset by benefits from productivity initiatives, including savings from restructuring actions, net of transition costs and the net benefit of pricing and raw material costs.

Operating income increased in 2018 compared to 2017 driven by the net impact of acquisitions and organic growth, partially offset by growth investments.

​

Avery Dennison Corporation | 2019 Annual Report 9 

FINANCIAL CONDITION

Liquidity

Operating Activities

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

In 2019, cash flow provided by operating activities increased compared to 2018 primarily due to lower pension plan contributions, improved operational working capital, and lower incentive compensation payments, partially offset by higher restructuring payments.

In 2018, cash flow provided by operating activities decreased compared to 2017 primarily due to our $200 million contribution to the ADPP in connection with its termination, higher income tax payments, net of refunds, changes in operational working capital, and higher incentive compensation payments, partially offset by higher net income.

Investing Activities

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

Purchases of Property, Plant and Equipment

In 2019, 2018 and 2017, we invested in equipment and expanded manufacturing facilities to support growth and improve manufacturing productivity in Asia, North America and Europe.

Purchases of Software and Other Deferred Charges

In 2019, we invested in enterprise resource planning system implementations in North America and enterprise resource planning system upgrades worldwide. In 2018, we invested in enterprise resource planning system implementations in North America and Asia. In 2017, we invested in enterprise resource planning system implementations in North America, Asia, and Europe. 

Proceeds from Sales of Property, Plant and Equipment

In 2019, the majority of the proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment was related to the sale of one property in each of North America, Asia and Europe. In 2018, the majority of the proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment was related to the sale of two properties in Europe.

Proceeds from Insurance and (Purchases) Sales of Investments, Net

In 2019, we had lower proceeds from insurance associated with our corporate-owned life insurance policies, partially offset by lower net (purchases) sales of investments compared to 2018. In 2018, we had higher proceeds from insurance associated with our corporate-owned life insurance policies and lower net (purchases) sales of investments compared to 2017.

Payments for Investments in Businesses and Acquisitions, Net of Cash Acquired

In 2019 and 2018, we paid $6.5 million and $3.8 million for investments in unconsolidated businesses, respectively. In 2017, the aggregate payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and investments in businesses were approximately $319 million, which we funded through cash and commercial paper borrowings. The 2017 Acquisitions were also partially funded using proceeds from the €500 million senior notes we issued in 2017. 

Refer to Note 2, “Acquisitions,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

10 Avery Dennison Corporation | 2019 Annual Report 

Financing Activities

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

Borrowings and Repayment of Debt

During 2019, 2018, and 2017, our commercial paper borrowings were used to fund share repurchase activity, dividend payments, capital expenditures and acquisitions, and for other general corporate purposes.

In December 2018, we issued $500 million of senior notes, due December 2028. These senior notes bear an interest rate of 4.875% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears. The net proceeds from this offering, after deducting underwriting discounts and estimated offering expenses, were $493.3 million, which we used to repay commercial paper borrowings. Prior to the issuance of these senior notes, we used commercial paper borrowings in the third quarter to fund our $200 million contribution to the ADPP in connection with its termination.

In March 2017, we issued €500 million of senior notes, due March 2025. These senior notes bear an interest rate of 1.25% per year, payable annually in arrears. The net proceeds from this offering, after deducting underwriting discounts and estimated offering expenses, were $526.6 million (€495.5 million), a portion of which we used to repay commercial paper borrowed to finance a portion of the purchase price for our acquisition of the European business of Mactac and the remainder of which we used for general corporate purposes, including other acquisitions.

Refer to Note 2, “Acquisitions,” and Note 4, “Debt,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

Dividends Paid

We paid dividends of $2.26 per share in 2019 compared to $2.01 per share in 2018. In April 2019, we increased our quarterly dividend to $.58 per share, representing an increase of approximately 12% from our previous dividend rate of $.52 per share.

Share Repurchases

From time to time, our Board authorizes the repurchase of shares of our outstanding common stock. Repurchased shares may be reissued under our long-term incentive plan or used for other corporate purposes. In 2019, we repurchased approximately 2 million shares of our common stock at an aggregate cost of $237.7 million. In 2018, we repurchased approximately 4 million shares of our common stock at an aggregate cost of $392.9 million.

In April 2019, our Board authorized the repurchase of shares of our common stock with a fair market value of up to $650 million, exclusive of any fees, commissions or other expenses related to such purchases, in addition to the amount outstanding under our previous Board authorization. Board authorizations remain in effect until shares in the amount authorized thereunder have been repurchased. As of December 28, 2019, shares of our common stock in the aggregate amount of $644.7 million remained authorized for repurchase under this Board authorization. 

Net (Tax Withholding) Proceeds Related to Stock-Based Compensation

In 2019, tax withholding for stock-based compensation decreased compared to 2018 as a result of equity awards vesting at lower share prices. In 2018, tax withholding for stock-based compensation increased compared to 2017 as a result of higher share prices for equity awards vesting during the year.

Approximately .3 million, .03 million, and .6 million stock options were exercised in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Refer to Note 12, “Long-Term Incentive Compensation,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

Analysis of Selected Balance Sheet Accounts

Long-lived Assets

Property, plant and equipment, net, increased by approximately $73 million to $1.2 billion at year-end 2019, which primarily reflected purchases of property, plant and equipment, partially offset by depreciation expense and the impact of foreign currency translation.

Goodwill decreased by approximately $11 million to $930.8 million at year-end 2019 due to the impact of foreign currency translation.

Other intangibles resulting from business acquisitions, net, decreased by approximately $18 million to $126.5 million at year-end 2019, which primarily reflected amortization expense.

Refer to Note 3, “Goodwill and Other Intangibles Resulting from Business Acquisitions,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

Other assets increased by approximately $204 million to $654.8 million and long-term retirement benefits and other liabilities increased by approximately $87 million to $421.4 million, primarily reflecting the recognition of operating lease assets and liabilities as the result of our adoption of the accounting guidance update described in Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Avery Dennison Corporation | 2019 Annual Report 11 

Shareholders’ Equity Accounts

The balance of our shareholders' equity increased by approximately $249 million to $1.2 billion at year-end 2019. Refer to Note 11, “Supplemental Equity and Comprehensive Income Information,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 

Impact of Foreign Currency Translation

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

In 2019, international operations generated approximately 77% of our net sales. Our future results are subject to changes in political and economic conditions in the regions in which we operate and the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates.

The unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation on net sales in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily related to euro-denominated sales and sales in China and Brazil.

On July 1, 2018, we began accounting for our operations in Argentina as highly inflationary, as the country’s three-year cumulative inflation rate exceeded 100%. As a result, the functional currency of our Argentine subsidiary became the U.S. dollar.

Effect of Foreign Currency Transactions

The impact on net income from transactions denominated in foreign currencies is largely mitigated because the costs of our products are generally denominated in the same currencies in which they are sold. In addition, to reduce our income and cash flow exposure to transactions in foreign currencies, we enter into foreign exchange forward, option and swap contracts where available and appropriate. We also utilized certain foreign-currency-denominated debt to mitigate our foreign currency translation exposure from our net investment in foreign operations. Refer to Note 5, "Financial Instruments," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

Analysis of Selected Financial Ratios

We utilize the financial ratios discussed below to assess our financial condition and operating performance. We believe this information assists our investors in understanding drivers of our cash flow other than net income and capital expenditures.

Operational Working Capital Ratio

Operational working capital, as a percentage of annualized current-quarter net sales, is reconciled to working capital below. Our objective is to minimize our investment in operational working capital, as a percentage of annualized current-quarter net sales, to maximize our cash flow and return on investment. Operational working capital, as a percentage of annualized current-quarter net sales in 2019 was modestly favorable compared to 2018.

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

Accounts Receivable Ratio

The average number of days sales outstanding was 63 days in 2019 compared to 62 days in 2018, calculated using the four-quarter average accounts receivable balance divided by the average daily sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in average number of days sales outstanding primarily reflected the timing of collections and the impact of foreign currency translation. 

Inventory Ratio

Average inventory turnover was 7.7 in 2019 compared to 7.8 in 2018, calculated using the annual cost of sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively, and divided by the four-quarter average inventory balance. The decrease in average inventory turnover primarily reflected the timing of inventory purchases. 

Accounts Payable Ratio

The average number of days payable outstanding was 74 days in 2019 compared to 73 days in 2018, calculated using the four-quarter average accounts payable balance divided by the average daily cost of products sold in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in average number of days payable outstanding primarily reflected longer payment terms with vendors and the impact of foreign currency translation.

12 Avery Dennison Corporation | 2019 Annual Report 

Financial Covenants

Our revolving credit facility (the “Revolver”) contains financial covenants requiring that we maintain specified ratios of total debt and interest expense in relation to certain measures of income. As of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, we were in compliance with our financial covenants.

Fair Value of Debt

The estimated fair value of our long-term debt is primarily based on the credit spread above U.S. Treasury securities or euro government bond securities, as applicable, on notes with similar rates, credit ratings, and remaining maturities. The fair value of short-term borrowings, which includes commercial paper issuances and short-term lines of credit, approximates carrying value given the short duration of these obligations. The fair value of our total debt was $2.05 billion at December 28, 2019 and $2 billion at December 29, 2018. Fair value amounts were determined based primarily on Level 2 inputs, which are inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable. Refer to Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” for more information.

Capital Resources

Capital resources include cash flows from operations, cash and cash equivalents and debt financing, including access to commercial paper. We use these resources to fund operational needs.

At year-end 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $253.7 million held in accounts at third-party financial institutions. Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world. At year-end 2019, the majority of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. 

To meet U.S. cash requirements, we have several cost-effective liquidity options available. These options include borrowing funds at reasonable rates, including borrowings from foreign subsidiaries, and repatriating foreign earnings and profits. However, if we were to repatriate incremental foreign earnings and profits, we could be subject to cash payments of withholding taxes imposed by foreign tax authorities and additional U.S. taxes due to the impact of foreign currency movements related to such earnings and profits.

In November 2017, we amended and restated the Revolver, increasing the amount available from certain domestic and foreign banks from $700 million to $800 million. The amendment also extended the Revolver’s maturity date to November 8, 2022. The Revolver is used as a back-up facility for our commercial paper program and can be used for other corporate purposes.

No balance was outstanding under the Revolver as of December 28, 2019 or December 29, 2018. Commitment fees associated with the Revolver in 2019, 2018, and 2017 were $1.2 million, $1.2 million, and $1.1 million, respectively.

Subsequent to our fiscal year-end 2019, in February 2020, we again amended and restated the Revolver, extending the maturity date to February 13, 2025. The maturity date may be extended for an additional one-year period under certain circumstances. The commitments under the Revolver may be increased by up to $400 million, subject to lender approvals and customary requirements.

In addition to the Revolver, we have significant short-term lines of credit available in various countries of approximately $330 million in the aggregate at December 28, 2019. These lines may be cancelled at any time by us or the issuing banks. Short-term borrowings outstanding under our lines of credit were $37.4 million and $45.5 million at December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, respectively, with a weighted average interest rate of 6.4% and 7%, respectively.

Refer to Note 4, “Debt,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

We are exposed to financial market risk resulting from changes in interest and foreign currency rates, and to possible liquidity and credit risks of our counterparties.

Capital from Debt

Our total debt decreased by approximately $27 million to $1.94 billion at year-end 2019 compared to $1.97 billion at year-end 2018, primarily reflecting a net decrease in commercial paper borrowings and the impact of foreign currency translation. 

Credit ratings are a significant factor in our ability to raise short- and long-term financing. The credit ratings assigned to us also impact the interest rates paid and our access to commercial paper, credit facilities, and other borrowings. A downgrade of our short-term credit ratings could impact our ability to access the commercial paper markets. If our access to commercial paper markets were to become limited, we expect that the Revolver and our other credit facilities would be available to meet our short-term funding requirements. When determining a credit rating, we believe that rating agencies primarily consider our competitive position, business outlook, consistency of cash flows, debt level and liquidity, geographic dispersion and management team. We remain committed to maintaining an investment grade rating.

Avery Dennison Corporation | 2019 Annual Report 13 

Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Contractual Obligations at End of Year 2019

​[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

The table above does not include:

●Purchase obligations or open purchase orders at year-end – It is impracticable for us to obtain this information or provide a reasonable estimate thereof due to the decentralized nature of our purchasing systems. In addition, purchase orders are generally entered into at fair value and cancelable without penalty. 

●Cash funding requirements for pension benefits payable to certain eligible current and future retirees under our funded plans – Benefits under our funded pension plans are paid through trusts or trust equivalents. Cash funding requirements for our funded plans, which can be significantly impacted by earnings on investments, the discount rate, changes in the plans, and funding laws and regulations, are not included as we are not able to estimate required contributions to the trusts or trust equivalents. Refer to Note 6, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding expected contributions to these plans and plan terminations and settlements.

●Pension and postretirement benefit payments – As of December 28, 2019, we had unfunded benefit obligations from certain defined benefit plans. Refer to Note 6, "Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information, including expected benefit payments over the next 10 years. 

●Deferred compensation plan benefit payments – It is impracticable for us to obtain a reasonable estimate for 2019 and beyond due to the volatility of the payment amounts and certain events that could trigger immediate payment of benefits to participants. In addition, participant account balances are marked-to-market monthly and benefit payments are adjusted annually. Refer to Note 6, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

●Cash awards to employees under incentive compensation plans – The amounts to be paid to employees under these awards are based on our stock price and, if applicable, achievement of certain performance objectives as of the end of their respective performance periods, and, therefore, we cannot reasonably estimate the amounts to be paid on the vesting dates. Refer to Note 12, “Long-term Incentive Compensation,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

●Unfunded termination indemnity benefits to certain employees outside of the U.S. – These benefits are subject to applicable agreements, local laws and regulations. We have not incurred significant costs related to these arrangements.

●Unrecognized tax benefits of $70 million – The resolution of the balance, including the timing of payments, is contingent upon various unknown factors and cannot be reasonably estimated. Refer to Note 14, “Taxes Based on Income,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

●Payments related to cost reduction actions – The payments for severance and other contract terminations are subject to applicable agreements, local laws and practices. Refer to Note 13, “Cost Reduction Actions,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

●Acquisition-related obligations - Obligations related to our agreement to acquire Smartrac's Transponder (RFID Inlay) division. Refer to Note 2, "Acquisitions," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions for the reporting period and as of the financial statement date. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expense. Actual results could differ from these estimates. 

Critical accounting estimates are those that are important to our financial condition and results, and which require us to make difficult, subjective and/or complex judgments. Critical accounting estimates cover accounting matters that are inherently uncertain because their future resolution is unknown. We believe our critical accounting estimates include accounting for goodwill, pension and postretirement benefits, taxes based on income, and long-term incentive compensation.

Goodwill 

Our reporting units are composed of either a discrete business or an aggregation of businesses with similar economic characteristics. We perform an annual impairment test of goodwill during the fourth quarter, unless certain factors indicate the need to perform an impairment assessment in addition to the annual test. In performing the required impairment tests, we have the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative assessment for goodwill impairment. If the qualitative assessment indicates that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, a quantitative assessment is performed. A quantitative assessment primarily consists of a present value (discounted cash flow) method to determine the fair value of the reporting units with goodwill.

14 Avery Dennison Corporation | 2019 Annual Report 

Certain factors may result in the need to perform an impairment test prior to the fourth quarter, including significant underperformance of a business relative to expected operating results, significant adverse economic and industry trends, significant decline in our market capitalization for an extended period of time relative to net book value, or a decision to divest a portion of a reporting unit.

We compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount, and, to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the unit’s fair value, an impairment of goodwill is recognized for the excess up to the amount of goodwill of that reporting unit.

In consultation with outside specialists, we estimate the fair value of our reporting units using various valuation techniques, with the primary technique being a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various assumptions about the reporting units, including their respective forecasted sales, operating margins and growth rates, and discount rates. Assumptions about discount rates are based on a weighted average cost of capital for comparable companies. Assumptions about sales, operating margins, and growth rates are based on our forecasts, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and marketplace data. Assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. We base our fair value estimates on projected financial information and assumptions that we believe are reasonable. However, actual future results may materially differ from these estimates and projections. The valuation methodology used to estimate the fair value of reporting units requires inputs and assumptions that reflect current market conditions, as well as the impact of planned business and operational strategies that require management judgment. The estimated fair value could increase or decrease depending on changes in the inputs and assumptions. 

In our annual impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of 2019, the goodwill of all reporting units in our Label and Graphic Materials and Retail Branding and Information Solutions reportable segments, as well as the goodwill of one reporting unit in our Industrial and Healthcare Materials reportable segment, were tested utilizing a qualitative assessment. Based on this assessment, we determined that the fair values of these reporting units were more likely than not greater than their respective carrying values. Therefore, the goodwill in these reporting units was not impaired. 

Additionally, in our annual 2019 impairment analysis, the goodwill of one reporting unit in our Industrial and Healthcare Materials reportable segment was tested utilizing a quantitative assessment. This assessment indicated that the fair value of this reporting unit exceeded its carrying amount, including goodwill, by more than 100% and the goodwill of this reporting unit was not impaired.

Pension and Postretirement Benefits

Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by management in consultation with outside actuaries. In the event that we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return, or health care costs, future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. Due to changes in market conditions or participant population, the actuarial assumptions that we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liability and related costs. 

Discount Rate

In consultation with our actuaries, we annually review and determine the discount rates to be used in valuing our postretirement obligations. The assumed discount rates for our international pension plans reflect market rates for high quality corporate bonds currently available. Our discount rates are determined by evaluating yield curves consisting of large populations of high quality corporate bonds. The projected pension benefit payment streams are then matched with the bond portfolios to determine a rate that reflects the liability duration unique to our plans. As of December 28, 2019, a .25% increase in the discount rates associated with our international plans would have decreased our year-end projected benefit obligation by $42 million and increased expected periodic benefit cost for the coming year by approximately $1 million. Conversely, a .25% decrease in the discount rates associated with our international plans would have increased our year-end projected benefit obligation by approximately $42 million and decreased expected periodic benefit cost for the coming year by approximately $2 million.

We use the full yield curve approach to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Under this approach, we apply multiple discount rates from a yield curve composed of the rates of return on several hundred high-quality, fixed income corporate bonds available at the measurement date. We believe this approach provides a more precise measurement of service and interest cost by aligning the timing of the plans’ liability cash flows to the corresponding rates on the yield curve. 

Long-term Return on Plan Assets

We determine the long-term rate of return assumption for plan assets by reviewing the historical and expected returns of both the equity and fixed income markets, taking into account our asset allocation, the correlation between returns in our asset classes, and our mix of active and passive investments. Additionally, current market conditions, including interest rates, are evaluated and market data is reviewed for reasonableness and appropriateness. An increase or decrease of .25% on the long-term return on assets associated with our international plans would have decreased or increased, respectively, our periodic benefit cost for the coming year by approximately $2 million.

Avery Dennison Corporation | 2019 Annual Report 15 

Taxes Based on Income

We are subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, whereby judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision, accruals for taxes, deferred taxes and for evaluating our tax positions. Our provision for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability approach in accordance with GAAP. Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable in future years. These assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. These amounts are adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect changes in tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. We evaluate the realizability of these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. Our assessment of these sources of income relies heavily on estimates. Our forecasted earnings by jurisdiction are determined by how we operate our business and any changes to our operations may affect our effective tax rate. For example, our future income tax rate could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions in which we have significant deferred tax assets that are dependent on such earnings to be realized. We use historical experience along with operating forecasts to evaluate expected future taxable income. To the extent we do not consider it more- likely-than-not that a deferred tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance is established in the period we make that determination. A tax planning strategy is defined as “an action that: is prudent and feasible; an enterprise ordinarily might not take, but would take to prevent an operating loss or tax credit carryforward from expiring unused; and would result in realization of deferred tax assets.” 

Our income tax rate is significantly affected by the different tax rates applicable in the jurisdictions in which we do business.

We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed in subsequent years. Adjustments based on filed returns are recorded when identified. 

Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by taxpayers and governmental taxing authorities. We review our tax positions quarterly and adjust the balances as new information becomes available. Significant judgment is required in determining our tax expense and evaluating our tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties. Our estimate of the potential outcome of any uncertain tax issue is subject to management's assessment of relevant facts and circumstances existing at the balance sheet date, taking into consideration existing laws, regulations and practices of any governmental authorities exercising jurisdiction over our operations. For example, the European Commission has conducted investigations in multiple countries focusing on whether local country tax rulings or tax legislation provides preferential tax treatment that violates European Union state aid rules and concluded that certain countries, including the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Belgium, Ireland, and the United Kingdom, have provided illegal state aid in certain cases. We continue to monitor state aid developments since they involve jurisdictions in which we have significant operations, and consider these matters in determining our uncertain tax positions. 

Refer to Note 14, “Taxes Based on Income,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

Long-Term Incentive Compensation

Valuation of Stock-Based Awards

Our stock-based compensation expense is based on the fair value of awards, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, and amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and performance units (“PUs”). The compensation expense related to market-leveraged stock units (“MSUs”) is based on the fair value of awards, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, and amortized on a graded-vesting basis over their respective performance periods. 

Compensation expense for awards with a market condition as a performance objective, which includes PUs and MSUs, is not adjusted if the condition is not met, as long as the requisite service period is met. 

The fair value of stock options is estimated as of the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. This model requires input assumptions for our expected dividend yield, expected stock price volatility, risk-free interest rate and the expected option term. 

The following assumptions are used in estimating the fair value of granted stock options:

Risk-free interest rate is based on the 52-week average of the Treasury-Bond rate that has a term corresponding to the expected option term.

Expected stock price volatility represents an average of implied and historical volatility.

Expected dividend yield is based on the current annual dividend divided by the 12-month average of our monthly stock price prior to the date of grant.

Expected option term is determined based on historical experience under our long-term incentive plans.

The fair value of RSUs and the component of PUs that is subject to achievement of performance objectives based on a financial performance condition is determined based on the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date, adjusted for foregone dividends. 

The fair value of stock-based awards that are subject to achievement of performance objectives based on a market condition, which includes MSUs and the other component of PUs, is determined using the Monte-Carlo simulation model, which utilizes multiple input variables, including expected stock price volatility and other assumptions appropriate for determining fair value, to estimate the probability of satisfying the target performance objectives established for the award.

Forfeiture Rate

Changes in estimated forfeiture rates are recorded as cumulative adjustments in the period estimates are revised.

Certain of these assumptions are based on management’s estimates, in consultation with outside specialists. Significant changes in assumptions for future awards and actual forfeiture rates could materially impact stock-based compensation expense and our results of operations. 

16 Avery Dennison Corporation | 2019 Annual Report 

Valuation of Cash-Based Awards

Cash-based awards consist of long-term incentive units (“LTI Units”) granted to eligible employees. LTI Units are classified as liability awards and remeasured at each quarter-end over the applicable vesting or performance period. In addition to LTI Units with terms and conditions that mirror those of RSUs, we also grant certain employees LTI Units with terms and conditions that mirror those of PUs and MSUs.

RECENT ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS

Refer to Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for this information.

MARKET-SENSITIVE INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

Risk Management

We are exposed to the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.

We generally do not purchase or hold foreign currency or interest rate or commodity contracts for trading purposes.

Our objective in managing our exposure to foreign currency changes is to reduce the risk to our earnings and cash flow associated with foreign exchange rate changes. As a result, we enter into foreign exchange forward, option and swap contracts to reduce risks associated with the value of our existing foreign currency assets, liabilities, firm commitments and anticipated foreign revenues and costs, when available and appropriate. The gains and losses on these contracts are intended to offset changes in the related exposures. We do not hedge our foreign currency translation exposure in a manner that would entirely eliminate the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates on our net income. We also utilize certain foreign-currency-denominated debt to mitigate our foreign currency translation exposure from our net investment in foreign operations.

Our objective in managing our exposure to interest rate changes is to reduce the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows. To achieve our objectives, we may periodically use interest rate contracts to manage our exposure to interest rate changes. 

Additionally, we enter into certain natural gas futures contracts to reduce the risks associated with natural gas anticipated to be used in manufacturing and operations. These amounts are not material to our financial statements.

In the normal course of operations, we also face other risks that are either non-financial or non-quantifiable. These risks principally include changes in economic or political conditions, other risks associated with foreign operations, commodity price risk and litigation and compliance risk, which are not reflected in the analyses described below.

Foreign Exchange Value-At-Risk

We use a Value-At-Risk (“VAR”) model to determine the estimated maximum potential one-day loss in earnings associated with our foreign exchange positions and contracts. This approach assumes that market rates or prices for foreign exchange positions and contracts are normally distributed. VAR model estimates are made assuming normal market conditions. The model includes foreign exchange derivative contracts. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and accounts receivable and accounts payable denominated in foreign currencies, which certain of these instruments are intended to hedge, are excluded from the model.

The VAR model is a risk analysis tool and does not represent actual losses in fair value that we could incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market factors.

In both 2019 and 2018, the VAR was estimated using a variance-covariance methodology. The currency correlation was based on one-year historical data obtained from one of our domestic banks. A 95% confidence level was used for a one-day time horizon.

The estimated maximum potential one-day loss in earnings for our foreign exchange positions and contracts was not significant at year-end 2019 or 2018.

Interest Rate Sensitivity

In 2019 and 2018, an assumed 30 basis point increase in interest rates affecting our variable-rate borrowings (10% of our weighted average interest rate on floating rate debt) would not have had a significant impact on interest expense.

​

Avery Dennison Corporation | 2019 Annual Report 17 

Consolidated Balance Sheets[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

​

18 Avery Dennison Corporation | 2019 Annual Report 

Consolidated Statements of Income[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]