PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

Company Background

Avery Dennison Corporation (“Avery Dennison” or the “Company,” “Registrant,” or “Issuer,” and generally referred to as “we” or “us”) was incorporated in Delaware in 1977 as Avery International Corporation, the successor corporation to a California corporation of the same name incorporated in 1946. In 1990, we merged one of our subsidiaries into Dennison Manufacturing Company (“Dennison”), as a result of which Dennison became our wholly-owned subsidiary and in connection with which our name was changed to Avery Dennison Corporation. You can learn more about us by visiting our website at www.averydennison.com. Our website address provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not intended to function as a hyperlink and the information on our website is not, nor should it be considered, part of this report or incorporated by reference into this report.

Business Overview and Reportable Segments

Our businesses include the production of pressure-sensitive materials and a variety of tickets, tags, labels and other converted products. We sell most of our pressure-sensitive materials to label printers and converters that convert the materials into labels and other products through embossing, printing, stamping and die-cutting. We sell other pressure-sensitive materials in converted form as tapes and reflective sheeting. We also manufacture and sell a variety of other converted products and items not involving pressure-sensitive components, such as fasteners, tickets, tags, radio-frequency identification (“RFID”) inlays and tags, and imprinting equipment and related solutions, which serve the apparel and other end markets.

Our reportable segments for fiscal year 2019 were:

●Label and Graphic Materials (“LGM”);

●Retail Branding and Information Solutions (“RBIS”); and

●Industrial and Healthcare Materials (“IHM”).

In 2019, the LGM, RBIS, and IHM segments made up approximately 67%, 23% and 10%, respectively, of our total sales.

In 2019, international operations constituted a substantial majority of our business, representing approximately 77% of our sales. As of December 28, 2019, we operated approximately 180 manufacturing and distribution facilities worldwide with more than 30,000 employees in over 50 countries.

LGM Segment

Our LGM segment manufactures and sells Fasson®-, JAC®-, and Avery Dennison®-brand pressure-sensitive label and packaging materials, Avery Dennison®- and Mactac®-brand graphics, and Avery Dennison®-brand reflective products. The business of this segment tends not to be seasonal, except for certain outdoor graphics and reflective products.

Pressure-sensitive materials consist primarily of papers, plastic films, metal foils and fabrics, which are coated with internally-developed and purchased adhesives, and then laminated with specially-coated backing papers and films. They are then sold in roll or sheet form with either solid or patterned adhesive coatings in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties.

A pressure-sensitive, or self-adhesive, material is one that adheres to a surface by press-on contact. It generally consists of four layers: a face material, which may be paper, metal foil, plastic film or fabric; an adhesive, which may be permanent or removable; a release coating; and a backing material to protect the adhesive from premature contact with other surfaces that can also serve as a carrier for supporting and dispensing individual labels. When the products are to be used, the release coating and protective backing are removed, exposing the adhesive so that the label or other face material may be pressed or rolled into place. Because they are easy to apply without the need for adhesive activation, self-adhesive materials can provide cost savings compared to other materials that require heat- or moisture-activated adhesives, while offering aesthetic and other advantages over alternative technologies.

1 
Label and packaging materials are sold worldwide to label converters for labeling, decorating, and specialty applications in the home and personal care, beer and beverage, durables, pharmaceutical, wine and spirits, and food market segments. When used in package decoration applications, the visual appeal of self-adhesive materials can help increase sales of the products on which the materials are applied. Self-adhesive materials are also used to convey variable information, such as bar codes for mailing or weight and price information for packaged meats and other foods. Self-adhesive materials provide consistent and versatile adhesion and are available in a large selection of materials, which can be made into labels of varying sizes and shapes.

Our graphics and reflective products include a variety of films and other products that are sold to the architectural, commercial sign, digital printing, and other related market segments. We also sell durable cast and reflective films to the construction, automotive and fleet transportation market segments and reflective films for traffic and safety applications. We provide sign shops, commercial printers and designers a broad range of pressure-sensitive materials to enable the creation of impactful and informative brand and decorative graphics. We have an array of pressure-sensitive vinyl and specialty materials designed for digital imaging, screen printing and sign cutting applications.

In the LGM segment, our larger competitors in label and packaging materials include UPM Raflatac, a subsidiary of UPM Corporation; Lintec Corporation; Ritrama SpA, a subsidiary of the Fedrigoni Group; Flexcon Corporation, Inc.; and various regional firms. For graphics and reflective products, our largest competitors are 3M Company (“3M”) and the Orafol Group. We believe that entry of competitors into the field of pressure-sensitive adhesives and materials is limited by technical knowledge and capital requirements. We believe that our technical expertise, size and scale of operations, broad line of quality products and service programs, distribution capabilities, brand strength, and product innovation are the primary advantages in maintaining and further developing our competitive position.

RBIS Segment

Our RBIS segment designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of branding and information solutions to retailers, brand owners, apparel manufacturers, distributors and industrial customers. This segment experiences some seasonality, with higher volume generally in advance of the spring, fall (back-to-school), and holiday shipping periods. In recent years, as the apparel industry has moved to more frequent seasonal updates, this segment has experienced less seasonality.

The branding solutions of RBIS include creative services, brand embellishments, graphic tickets, tags, and labels, and sustainable packaging. RBIS’ information solutions include item-level RFID solutions; visibility and loss prevention solutions; price ticketing and marking; care, content, and country of origin compliance solutions; and brand protection and security solutions.

In the RBIS segment, our primary competitors include Checkpoint Systems, Inc., a subsidiary of CCL Industries Inc.; R-pac International Corporation; and SML Group Limited. We believe that our global distribution network, reliable service, product quality and consistency, and ability to serve customers consistently with comprehensive solutions close to where they manufacture are the key advantages in maintaining and further developing our competitive position.

IHM Segment

Our IHM segment manufactures and sells Fasson®-brand and Avery Dennison®-brand tapes and other pressure-sensitive adhesive-based materials and converted products, mechanical fasteners, and performance polymers. Our pressure-sensitive adhesive-based materials are available in roll form and in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties. These materials and converted products are used in non-mechanical fastening, bonding and sealing systems for various automotive, electronics, building and construction, general industrial, personal care, and medical applications. IHM also manufactures and sells Yongle® brand tapes for wire harnessing and cable wrapping in automotive, electrical, and general industrial applications. The mechanical fasteners are primarily precision-extruded and injection-molded plastic devices used in various automotive, general industrial, and retail applications.

2 
For industrial and healthcare materials and converted products, our primary competitors include 3M; Tesa-SE, a subsidiary of Beiersdorf AG; Nitto Denko Corporation; and numerous regional and specialty suppliers. For fastener products, there are a variety of competitors supplying extruded and injection molded fasteners and fastener attaching equipment. We believe that entry of competitors is limited by technical knowledge and capital requirements, and that our technical expertise, size and scale of operations, broad line of high-quality, cost-effective solutions and product innovation are the most significant advantages in maintaining and further developing our competitive position in this business. 

Research and Development

Many of our products are the result of our research and development efforts. These efforts are directed primarily toward developing new products and operating techniques and improving productivity, sustainability, and product performance, often in close association with our customers. These efforts include patent and product development work relating to printing and coating technologies, as well as adhesive, release and ink chemistries in our LGM and IHM segments. Additionally, we focus on research projects related to RFID and external embellishments in our RBIS segment and medical technologies in our IHM segment, for which we hold and license a number of patents.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

The loss of individual patents or licenses would not be material to us taken as a whole, nor to our operating segments individually. Our principal trademarks are Avery Dennison, our logo, and Fasson. We believe these trademarks are strong in the market segments in which we compete.

Manufacturing and Environmental Matters

We use various raw materials – primarily paper, plastic films and resins, as well as specialty chemicals purchased from various commercial and industrial sources – that are subject to price fluctuations. Although shortages can occur from time to time, these raw materials are generally available.

We produce a majority of our self-adhesive materials using water-based emulsion and hot-melt adhesive technologies. A portion of our manufacturing process for self-adhesive materials utilizes organic solvents, which, unless controlled, could be emitted into the atmosphere or contaminate soil or groundwater. Emissions from these operations contain small amounts of volatile organic compounds, which are regulated by federal, state, local and foreign governments. We continue to evaluate the use of alternative materials and technologies to minimize these emissions. In connection with the maintenance and acquisition of certain manufacturing equipment, we invest in solvent capture and control units to assist in regulating these emissions.

We have developed adhesives and adhesive processing systems that minimize the use of solvents. Emulsion adhesives, hot-melt adhesives, and solventless and emulsion silicone systems have been installed in many of our facilities.

Based on current information, we do not believe that the cost of complying with applicable laws regulating the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, will have a material effect upon our capital expenditures, consolidated financial position or results of operations.

For information regarding our potential responsibility for cleanup costs at certain hazardous waste sites, see “Legal Proceedings” (Part I, Item 3) and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (Part II, Item 7).

3 
Available Information

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge on our investor website at www.investors.averydennison.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink and the information located there is not, nor should it be considered, part of this report or incorporated by reference into this report. We also make available on our website our (i) Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation; (ii) Amended and Restated Bylaws; (iii) Corporate Governance Guidelines; (iv) Code of Conduct, which applies to our directors, officers and employees; (v) Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers; (vi) charters of the Audit and Finance, Compensation and Executive Personnel, and Governance and Social Responsibility Committees of our Board of Directors; and (vii) Audit Committee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters. These documents are also available free of charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, Avery Dennison Corporation, 207 Goode Avenue, Glendale, California 91203.

Reports filed with or furnished to the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov.

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS