PART I

Item 1.Business.

OVERVIEW

ViacomCBS Inc. (“ViacomCBS”) is a leading global media and entertainment company that creates content and experiences for audiences worldwide. We operate through the following four segments:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2019, contributions to our consolidated revenues from our segments were as follows: TV Entertainment 43%, Cable Networks 45%, Filmed Entertainment 10% and Publishing 3%.

Owners of our Class A Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share. Our Class B Common Stock does not have voting rights. ViacomCBS Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. 

As of December 31, 2019, National Amusements, Inc. (“NAI”), a closely held corporation that owns and operates movie screens in the U.S., the United Kingdom (“UK”) and South America and manages additional movie screens in South America, directly or indirectly owned approximately 79.4% of our voting Class A Common Stock, and approximately 10.2% of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on a combined basis. NAI is not subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

We were organized as a Delaware corporation in 1986. Our principal offices are located at 1515 Broadway, New York, New York 10036. Our telephone number is (212) 258-6000 and our website is www.viacbs.com. Information included on or accessible through our website is not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10‑K. On December 4, 2019, Viacom Inc. (“Viacom”) merged with and into CBS Corporation (“CBS”), with CBS continuing as the surviving company (the “Merger”), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of August 13, 2019, as amended on October 16, 2019 (the “Merger Agreement”). At the effective time of the Merger, we changed our 

I-1

name to “ViacomCBS Inc.” Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this document to “ViacomCBS,” “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean ViacomCBS Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries, to “CBS” mean CBS Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Merger and to “Viacom” mean Viacom Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Merger.

TV ENTERTAINMENT 

Overview

Our TV Entertainment segment consists of the CBS Television Network, our domestic broadcast network; CBS Television Studios and CBS Television Distribution, our television production and syndication operations; CBS Interactive, our online content services for information and entertainment; our CBS-branded streaming services CBS All Access, CBSN, CBS Sports HQ® and ET Live®; CBS Sports Network, our cable network focused on college athletics and other sports; and CBS Television Stations, our 29 owned broadcast television stations.

Our TV Entertainment segment’s revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales, the licensing and distribution of its content and affiliate revenues comprised of station affiliation fees, retransmission fees and subscription fees, as further described below. In 2019, our TV Entertainment segment advertising revenues, content licensing revenues and affiliate revenues were approximately 50%, 26% and 21%, respectively, of total revenues for this segment. Our TV Entertainment segment generated 43%, 41% and 39% of our consolidated revenues in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

The CBS Television Network, through CBS Entertainment™, CBS News® and CBS Sports®, distributes a comprehensive schedule of news and public affairs broadcasts, sports and entertainment programming to more than 200 domestic television station affiliates reaching throughout the U.S., including 15 of our owned and operated television stations, and to affiliated stations in certain U.S. territories. The CBS Television Network primarily derives revenue from the sale of advertising time for its network broadcasts and affiliation fees from television stations affiliated with the CBS Television Network.

CBS Entertainment is responsible for acquiring or developing and scheduling the entertainment programming presented on the CBS Television Network, which includes primetime comedy and drama series, reality‑based programming, specials, children’s programs, daytime dramas, game shows and late-night programs such as The Late Show with Stephen Colbert. During 2019, the CBS Television Network broadcast the Tony Awards®, the Kennedy Center Honors and the Grammy Awards®. CBS won 21 awards at the 46th Annual Daytime Emmy® Awards in May 2019.

CBS News operates a worldwide news organization, providing the CBS Television Network and CBS News Radio® with regularly scheduled news and public affairs broadcasts, including 60 Minutes, 48 Hours, CBS Evening News, CBS This Morning, CBS Sunday Morning and Face the Nation as well as special reports.

CBS Sports broadcasts on the television network include PGA Tour golf tournaments, the Masters and the PGA Championship; the NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament and certain regular-season men’s college basketball games, including games from the Big Ten Conference; regular-season college football games, including games from the Southeastern Conference; and the NFL’s American Football Conference (“AFC”) regular-season, post-season wild card playoff, divisional playoff and championship games. In 2019, the CBS Television Network broadcast certain games under our agreement with the NFL to broadcast the AFC package through the 2022 season, which also includes the Super Bowl, which is broadcast on the CBS Television Network on a rotating basis with other networks. Our most recent Super Bowl broadcast was in February 2019 and our next Super Bowl broadcast will be in February 2021.

I-2

CBS Television Network content also is exhibited via the Internet, including through CBS.com™, CBSSports.com® and related software applications (“apps”); our streaming services, such as CBSN and CBS All Access, which are further described below; and virtual MVPDs, such as AT&T TV Now, Hulu with Live TV and YouTube TV.

The CW, a broadcast network and our 50/50 joint venture with Warner Bros. Entertainment, airs programming, including Charmed and The Flash. Eight of our owned television stations are affiliates of The CW. Certain of The CW’s series are streamed on Netflix, a subscription video-on-demand service (“SVOD”), and are also available via The CW app on multiple digital platforms.

CBS Television Studios and CBS Television Distribution produce, acquire and/or distribute programming, including series, specials, news and public affairs, and generate revenue principally from the licensing and distribution of such programming. The programming is produced primarily for broadcast on network television, exhibition on basic cable and premium subscription services, streaming services or distribution via first-run syndication. First-run syndication is programming exhibited on television stations without prior exhibition on a network or cable service. We subsequently distribute programming after its initial exhibition on a network, basic cable network or premium subscription service for domestic exhibition on television stations, cable networks or streaming services (known as “off-network syndicated programming”). Off-network syndicated programming and first‑run syndicated programming distributed domestically, as well as programming distributed internationally, can sometimes be sold in successive cycles of sales known as “first cycle” sales, “second cycle” sales, and so on, which may occur on exclusive or non-exclusive bases.

Programming that our production group produced or co-produced and is broadcast on network television includes, among others, FBI (CBS), Evil (CBS) and Nancy Drew (The CW). In off-network syndication, we distribute series, such as Hawaii Five-O, Criminal Minds, Blue Bloods and NCIS: New Orleans as well as a library of older television programs. We also produce and/or distribute first-run syndicated series such as Jeopardy!, Entertainment Tonight, Inside Edition, Dr. Phil and Judge Judy and produce several series for streaming on CBS All Access, including The Good Fight, Star Trek: Discovery, Why Women Kill and Star Trek: Picard. We also distribute syndicated and other programming internationally.

CBS Interactive is one of the leading global publishers of premium content on the Internet, delivering this content via web properties, mobile properties and apps on mobile, as well as Internet-connected television and other device platform apps. CBS Interactive is ranked among the top Internet properties in the world according to comScore Media Metrix. CBS Interactive’s leading brands serve targeted audiences with text, video, audio, and mobile content spanning technology, entertainment, sports, news, business, gaming and music categories. CBS Interactive generates revenue principally from the sale of advertising and sponsorships, in addition to subscription fees, license fees and e-commerce activities. 

CBS Interactive operates CBS.com, the online destination for CBS Television Network programming. Further extending the CBS.com experience, we offer a CBS app for on-demand streaming of various programs from our current network and library programming to users on multiple digital platforms. CBS Interactive operates CBSNews.com, the online destination for CBS News content, and offers an app for on-demand screening of current and library news programming and the content published on the website. CBS Interactive also operates CBSSportsDigital™, the online destination for CBS Sports content, including CBSSports.com, which provides sports content, fantasy sports, and community and e-commerce features, and a related app for on-demand viewing of certain sports events broadcast on CBS and other sports information; Max Preps; and 247Sports.

I-3

CBS Interactive also owns and operates other digital properties, including: CNET, one of the preeminent digital properties for technology and consumer electronics information; CNET en Espanol®; TVGuide Digital™; GameSpot®; Last.fm®; and MetroLyrics.com®.

Under CBS Interactive, Viacom Digital Studios (“VDS”) and its international extension, Viacom Digital Studios International, produces original content for consumption across leading social platforms to build engagement with certain of our Cable Networks brands. VidCon®, an innovative conference and festival celebrating online video, drives additional growth at VDS and our live events business.

Our CBS-branded streaming subscription services and advertiser-supported services feature general entertainment, news, sports and/or children’s programming and generate revenue from subscription fees and the sale of advertising on such services, respectively. The services are offered to customers through mobile and connected devices and third-party platforms. The below-described services are operated under CBS Interactive in collaboration with our other businesses.

CBS All Access is a streaming subscription service, which includes a commercial-free option for on-demand content. CBS All Access offers an extensive on-demand selection of both current and library programming and original series, such as The Good Fight, Star Trek: Discovery, Star Trek: Picard, Why Women Kill and The Twilight Zone series; and CBSN’s live and original news reporting and our other streaming services, as described further below, as well as the ability to stream live programming from local CBS Television Stations and certain CBS television station affiliates. All NFL games broadcast by the CBS Television Network as well as other CBS Television Network programming are streamed on CBS All Access platforms. CBS All Access also offers children’s programming, including original series and select Nickelodeon programming. CBS All Access is available at CBS.com and on multiple digital platforms and through CBS apps in the U.S. and Canada. A version of CBS All Access has launched internationally in Canada and 10 All Access in Australia includes programming from our Network 10 channels and certain of our other programming.

CBSN is a streaming live, advertiser-supported news network available 24 hours a day, seven days a week (“24/7”). Local versions of CBSN complement CBSN and stream local news from our owned television stations in major markets, including New York, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Boston and Minneapolis. CBSN is available at CBSNews.com and on multiple digital platforms through the CBS News app and through CBS Television Stations’ websites and mobile apps.

CBS Sports HQ is a streaming live, advertiser-supported sports news and highlights service available 24/7; and ET Live is a streaming advertiser-supported service based on the Entertainment Tonight brand covering entertainment stories and trends available 24/7.

Through the CBS Audience Network™, we deliver video content from our digital properties and television stations and affiliated television stations under an advertiser-supported distribution model to third-party digital properties. The growing slate of our content available online includes full episodes, clips and highlights based on our programming as well as original made-for-the-web content.

CBS Sports Network is a 24/7 cable program service that provides a diverse slate of sports and related content, with a strong focus on college sports. CBS Sports Network derives revenue from carriage fees from MVPDs and virtual MVPDs and advertising sales. The network televises over 700 live professional, amateur and collegiate events 

I-4

annually, highlighted by Division I college football and basketball games, including games from the Big East Conference and Mountain West Conference. WNBA games and professional bull riding (PBR) and motor sports events. In addition, the network showcases a variety of original programming, including documentaries, features and studio shows, highlighted by NFL Monday QB, That Other Pre-Game Show (TOPS), Time to Schein and a first of its kind all-female panel sports talk show, We Need to Talk. CBS Sports Network also provides ancillary coverage for CBS Sports relating to major events, such as the NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament, Masters and PGA Championship, and for Showtime Networks relating to Showtime Championship Boxing. CBS Sports Network produces weekday simulcasts of the radio shows Boomer and Gio, Tiki and Tierney and The Jim Rome Show.

The CBS Television Stations group consists of our 29 owned broadcast television stations, all of which operate under licenses granted by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”). The licenses are renewable every eight years. The CBS Television Stations Group principally derives revenue from the sale of advertising on our television stations and fees for authorizing the MVPDs’ and vMVPDs’ carriage of our television stations, which are also known as retransmission fees.

Our television stations are located in the 6 largest, and 15 of the top 20, television markets in the U.S. We own multiple television stations within the same designated market area (“DMA”) in 10 major markets. These multiple station markets are: New York (market #1), Los Angeles (market #2), Philadelphia (market #4), Dallas-Fort Worth (market #5), San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose (market #6), Boston (market #9), Detroit (market #14), Miami-Ft. Lauderdale (market #16), Sacramento-Stockton-Modesto (market #20) and Pittsburgh (market #24). Our television stations enable us to reach a wide audience within and across geographically diverse markets in the U.S. The stations produce news and broadcast public affairs, sports and other programming to serve their local markets and offer CBS, The CW or MyNetworkTV programming and syndicated programming.

CBS All Access offers streamed live programming from local CBS Television Stations and most CBS television station affiliates. Local versions of CBSN offer streamed local news from our owned television stations in certain local markets. Our television stations have local websites which promote the stations’ programming. We also have agreements for the streaming of our owned television stations on virtual MVPDs. Our owned stations broadcast free, advertiser-supported digital channels using available broadcast spectrum, including local CBS and syndicated programming, Start TV™, a national entertainment program service featuring classic television content focused on female audiences, which is an approximately 50/50 joint venture with Weigel Broadcasting, and Dabl featuring lifestyle programming.

I-5

Television Stations, Local Websites and CBSN Streaming Services 

The following table sets forth information regarding our owned television stations and related local websites and CBSN streaming services, as of February 18, 2020, within U.S. television markets:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Television market (DMA) rankings based on Nielsen Media Research Local Market Universe Estimates, September 2019.

(2)Our television stations’ websites and the local versions of CBSN feature and promote the stations’ programming and provide news, traffic, weather, entertainment and sports information, among other services for their local communities.

(3)KCCW-TV is operated as a satellite station of WCCO-TV.

(4)WBXI-CA is a Class A low power television station. Class A low power television stations do not implicate the FCC’s ownership rules.

I-6

CABLE NETWORKS

Overview

Our Cable Networks segment provides entertainment content, services and related branded products for consumers in targeted demographics attractive to advertisers, content distributors and retailers. The Cable Networks segment also delivers advertising and marketing services, including those under our advanced marketing solutions portfolio, which both utilizes advanced addressable video inventory to allow dynamic ad insertion and advanced targeting, and provides our marketing partners with a variety of consulting and creative services and associated activations. The Cable Networks segment also licenses its brands and properties for consumer products and recreation experiences, produces live events and creates original programming for third-party distributors.

Our Cable Networks segment includes our premium subscription cable networks, Showtime, The Movie Channel and Flix; our basic cable networks, including Nickelodeon, MTV, BET, Comedy Central, Paramount Network, Nick Jr., VH1, TV Land, CMT, Pop TV and Smithsonian Channel; and the international extensions of our multimedia brands, and our program services created specifically for international audiences such as public service broadcaster (“PSB”) Channel 5® and Milkshake!® in the UK, Televisión Federal S.A., or Telefe®, in Argentina, COLORS® in India, Paramount Channel™ in various countries and international broadcast network Network 10® in Australia. 

Our Cable Networks segment also develops and operates an extensive portfolio of digital and mobile experiences, including our streaming subscription offering of Showtime (“Showtime OTT”), Noggin, Nickelodeon’s preschool streaming subscription service, BET+, a subscription streaming service focused on Black audiences and consumers of Black culture, and Smithsonian Channel Plus.

Our studio production business is a global network of production studios producing premium episodic and film content across both our owned and operated platforms and for third parties. This business is primarily driven by Paramount Television Studios, Awesomeness, Nickelodeon, MTV and Comedy Central and utilizes our considerable intellectual property library to create long-form episodic content for third-party platforms. 

Our Cable Networks segment’s revenues are generated primarily from affiliate revenues comprised of fees from MVPDs and virtual MVPDs for carriage of our cable networks and subscription fees from our streaming services; advertising sales; and the licensing of its content and brands. In 2019, our Cable Networks segment affiliate revenues, advertising revenues and content licensing revenues were approximately 49%, 41% and 10%, respectively, of total revenues for this segment. Our Cable Networks segment generated 45%, 46% and 47% of our consolidated revenues in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Our most significant Cable Networks brands are discussed below. 

Our three commercial-free, premium subscription program services in the U.S. are Showtime (including Showtime OTT), which offers original scripted and unscripted series, recently released and other theatrical feature films, documentaries, sports-related programming, comedy and other specials, and special events; The Movie Channel, which offers recently released and other theatrical feature films and related programming; and Flix, which offers theatrical feature films primarily from the last several decades.

Programming highlights in 2019 included Showtime original series Billions, Ray Donovan, The L Word: Generation Q and Shameless, limited series The Loudest Voice, documentary features including Hitsville: The Story 

I-7

of Motown, documentary series including The Circus: Inside the Wildest Political Show on Earth, and various sports-related programs and documentary series including Inside the NFL. As of December 31, 2019, subscriptions to Showtime (including Showtime OTT) totaled approximately 27 million in the U.S., certain U.S. territories and Bermuda.

Showtime OTT allows subscribers to view on-demand programming as well as the live telecast of the east and west coast feeds of Showtime, and is available for purchase (without an MVPD video subscription) at showtime.com™, through the Showtime app and from multiple digital platforms. Showtime Anytime®, an authenticated version of Showtime, is available online and, via certain Internet-connected devices, through the Showtime Anytime app, free of charge to Showtime subscribers as part of their Showtime subscription through participating distributors.

Showtime Networks also produces and/or provides special events on a pay-per-view basis available for purchase by both Showtime subscribers and non-subscribers through the Showtime app and third-party distributors, including the Manny Pacquiao vs. Adrien Broner boxing match in January 2019.

Nickelodeon, now in its 40th year, is one of the most globally recognized and widely distributed multimedia entertainment brands for kids and family. Nickelodeon has been the number-one-rated ad-supported basic cable network for 24 consecutive years among kids 2 to 11. Nickelodeon features leading original and licensed series for kids across animation, live-action and preschool genres, and during the evening and overnight hours, the linear cable channel airs as Nick at Nite and features licensed family comedies. Nick Jr. entertains and educates preschoolers, engaging them with characters they love, building their imaginations and gaining key cognitive and social-emotional skills. Other Nickelodeon brands include TeenNick, Nicktoons and Nick Music.

Programming highlights in 2019 included Ryan’s Mystery Playdate, SpongeBob SquarePants, PAW Patrol, The Loud House, The Casagrandes, Henry Danger, Bubble Guppies, Blue’s Clues & You and Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader? with John Cena and tentpole events such as Kids’ Choice Awards. 

Nickelodeon is a key part of our global consumer products licensing business, licenses its brands for recreation experiences such as hotels and theme parks, and has numerous live and location-based experiences, such as JoJo Siwa’s D.R.E.A.M. The Tour, a multi-city live concert tour, its SlimeFest music festival in Chicago, multiple PAW Patrol live tours around the world, and Kids’ Choice Awards events in various international markets. In 2019, we acquired the entity holding global intellectual property rights to the Garfield franchise, including related to content, consumer products and location-based experiences. Noggin, Nickelodeon’s preschool subscription streaming service featuring over 1,000 full-length library episodes, interactive videos and short-form educational content, has an Amazon Prime Video Channel. In partnership with Paramount, Nickelodeon Movies™ produces branded films based on some of Nick’s most iconic franchises and characters. 

Awesomeness creates programming for various social and SVOD platforms and produces premium original series and films through its Emmy®-winning dedicated television and film studios. Awesomeness’ portfolio is strengthened by a branded content sales team, a creator network, a creative agency and a roster of talent relationships. Programming highlights in 2019 included PEN15, which was nominated for a 2019 Emmy® for outstanding writing for a comedy series, season two of Light as a Feather on Hulu, and The Perfect Date and Trinkets on Netflix. 

MTV is the leading global youth media brand, with operations spanning cable and mobile networks, live events, theatrical films and MTV Studios. 

I-8

Programming highlights in 2019 included new series launches The Hills: New Beginnings and Double Shot at Love with DJ Pauly D and Vinny, returning favorites Teen Mom, MTV Floribama Shore, Ridiculousness, Wild ‘N Out, Are You The One?, Siesta Key, The Challenge franchise and Jersey Shore: Family Vacation. The signature MTV hit Jersey Shore format has been adapted for our international audiences, with multiple versions around the world, including as Geordie Shore in the UK (now in its 20th season) and Acapulco Shore in Mexico, and some of our international programming formats have been imported to the U.S., such as Ex on the Beach, which originated in the UK and has become a global franchise with 14 local adaptations airing worldwide.

MTV’s signature programming event, the MTV Video Music Awards, in 2019 drew 5.5 million viewers across its live linear simulcast and 269 million video views from the launch of the VMA website through the day of the show. MTV’s annual tentpole programming events also include the MTV European Music Awards, MTV Movie and TV Awards, MTV MIAWs (celebrating the best in Latin music and the digital world of the millennial generation) and MTV Fandom Awards. In July 2019, MTV hosted its 13th annual Isle of MTV Malta concert and Malta Music Week events.

BET is a leading consumer brand in the urban marketplace, and the nation’s leading provider of entertainment, music, news and public affairs programming to African American audiences. Other BET brands include BET Her, the first network designed for black women, delivering a wide variety of culturally relevant programming, BET Gospel, featuring gospel music and spiritual programming, and BET Hip Hop, spotlighting hip hop music programming and performances.

Programming highlights in 2019 included new series launches American Soul and Boomerang, and returning favorites such as Martin, House of Payne and Meet the Browns. BET’s tentpoles and live events in 2019 included the seventh annual BET Experience, BET’s weekend-long celebration of music, entertainment and Black culture featuring the 2019 BET Awards, which aired as the number one cable awards show for the fifth consecutive year among adults 18 to 49; Black Girls Rock; and BET Hip Hop Awards. BET’s programming received seven NAACP Image Awards nominations and two wins in 2019. 

BET has a multi-year content partnership with award-winning writer, director, producer, actor and playwright Tyler Perry, that extends through 2024 and spans television, film and short-form video. In October 2019, The Oval and Sistas premiered, the first two series in the multi-year partnership. In 2019, BET and Tyler Perry launched BET+, an online SVOD service focused on Black audiences and consumers of Black culture and featuring more than 1,000 hours of advertising-free premium content, including original programming from Tyler Perry and exclusive series and other content from leading Black content creators.

Comedy Central is a leading destination for comedic talent and all things comedy, providing viewers access to a world of funny, provocative and relevant comedy, ranging from award-winning late-night, scripted and animated series, to stand-up specials, short-form and sketch.

Programming highlights in 2019 included the launch of South Side, the network’s highest-rated series premiere since 2012 among African Americans 18 to 49; returning hits The Daily Show with Trevor Noah, Drunk History and digital original Hack Into Broad City, each of which received several Emmy® nominations for outstanding series in their respective categories in 2019, South Park, which was renewed in September 2019 for three additional seasons, and the premieres of the critically-acclaimed scripted series The Other Two and sketch comedy Alternatino with Arturo Castro. 

I-9

Comedy Central also produces nationwide stand-up events and festivals, operates a Grammy Award-winning record label, produces a global podcast network and operates Comedy Central Radio on SiriusXM. In May 2019, Comedy Central launched Comedy Central Productions, a new studio-production arm partnering with comedy’s best writers, producers and on-screen talent to develop and distribute compelling, premium comedy content on all platforms. In June 2019, Comedy Central hosted its third annual Clusterfest, a three-day festival in San Francisco featuring world-class standup comedy, live music and experiential activities. Internationally, Comedy Central hosted the experiential events FriendsFest and Comedy Central Fest in a number of international markets.

Comedy Central’s strategic partnership with Trevor Noah’s production company, Day Zero Productions, gives us exclusive “first-look” rights on all projects developed by Day Zero Productions across television, feature films, digital and short-form video content. 

Paramount Network is a premium entertainment destination targeting adults 18 to 49 with original scripted and non-scripted series inspired by over a century of cinema, with stories that are immersive, inclusive and deeply personal. Programming highlights in 2019 included Yellowstone, starring Kevin Costner and written and directed by critically-acclaimed screenwriter Taylor Sheridan, which in its second season was cable’s most-watched scripted cable series of the summer. The network also featured the premiere of competition series The Last Cowboy, I Am Patrick Swayze, the most-watched episode of the network’s I Am documentary series, and new episodes of Ink Master, Bar Rescue and Bellator MMA. 

VH1 is a leading pop culture brand for adults 18 to 49 with an array of digital channels and services, including the VH1 app, VH1.com and @VH1. Programming highlights in 2019 included the critically-acclaimed original series RuPaul’s Drag Race, which received 14 Emmy® nominations and won four, including outstanding competition program and outstanding host; new series Girls’ Cruise with Lil’ Kim; and returning hits Love & Hip Hop, Black Ink Crew and Basketball Wives. 

TV Land features a mix of original programming, classic and contemporary television shows and specials that appeal to adults aged 25 to 54. Programming highlights in 2019 included the sixth season of Darren Star’s hit original series Younger, which was the number one rated ad-supported cable original sitcom among female viewers 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 for the third consecutive year. 

CMT is a leading country music and lifestyle destination, offering a mix of original series, music events and specials. Programming highlights in 2019 included the launch of Racing Wives; returning favorite Dallas Cowboys 

I-10

Cheerleaders; and tentpole events and music programming such as the CMT Music Awards, CMT Artists of the Year, CMT Hot 20 Countdown and CMT Crossroads. 

Smithsonian Channel features series and documentaries of a cultural, historical, and scientific nature. Smithsonian Channel content is available via MVPDs and virtual MVPDs in the U.S. and versions of Smithsonian Channel are distributed in Canada, Singapore, Brazil, Latin America, Africa, Asia and the UK. The website SmithsonianChannel.com™ and various apps promote Smithsonian Channel programming and provide information and entertainment services. Smithsonian Channel Plus is a streaming subscription service that allows subscribers to view on-demand programming, including 4K Ultra HD series and documentaries.

Pop TV is a general entertainment basic cable service focused on producing and licensing popular culture programming, such as the Emmy®-nominated original series Schitt’s Creek and Critics Choice Award®-nominated original series One Day at a Time, and licensed CBS programming, including NCIS: New Orleans and Scorpion. Pop TV is also available via the Pop Now app.

Network 10 is one of the three major free-to-air commercial broadcast networks in Australia. Network 10 includes the channels 10™, 10 Bold™ and 10 Peach™, which broadcast a mix of entertainment, drama, news and sports programming, such as Australian Survivor, Have You Been Paying Attention? and The Australian Formula 1 Grand Prix. Network 10 also includes the digital platforms 10 Play™, 10 Daily™ as well as 10 All Access, our streaming subscription service in Australia featuring Network 10 programming as well as our other programming.

Channel 5, a free-to-air PSB in the UK, and its affiliated channels air a broad mix of popular content, including factual programming, entertainment, reality, sports, acquired and original drama, and preschool programming through its award-winning Milkshake! brand. Programming highlights in 2019 included new dramas 15 Days, Blood and Agatha and the Truth of Murder, documentaries including RTS Programme Award winner The Abused and Suicidal: In Our Own Words, and critically acclaimed factual shows such as Critical Condition and Warship: Life at Sea. 

I-11

Telefe is a leading free-to-air channel and one of the biggest content producers in Argentina, with 11 studios and more than 3,500 hours of content produced each year. Telefe studios co-produced four films in 2019. Programming highlights in 2019 included La Voz Argentina (a local version of The Voice), Por el Mundo, 100 Días Para Enamorarse, PH: Podemos Hablar, Pequeña Victoria and Quien Quiere Ser Millonario (local version of Who Wants to be a Millionaire).

Paramount+ is an advertising-free, premium video-on-demand service, featuring films from Paramount Pictures and hundreds of television episodes from ViacomCBS’ library. Available as an authenticated service or to customers of select subscription service providers, as of December 2019, Paramount+ was available in Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland, Hungary, Poland and across Latin America.

COLORS is a highly-rated Hindi-language general entertainment pay television channel operated by our Viacom18 joint venture in India. COLORS is available in India and over 120 additional countries, including in the U.S. as Aapka Colors. COLORS also extends to the English language through COLORS Infinity, an English general entertainment channel, six Indian regional languages and two Hindi channels, COLORS Rishtey and COLORS Cineplex in the entertainment and movie space, respectively. Programming highlights in 2019 included the first season of Dance Deewane, a dance reality show; returning seasons of Bigg Boss, Fear Factor: Khatron Ke Khiladi, Naagin, Rising Star (India’s first-ever live singing reality show) and India’s Got Talent; and the 19th edition of the International Indian Film Academy (IIFA) Awards, Bollywood’s biggest awards extravaganza. 

Viacom18 Studios, Viacom18’s filmed entertainment business, includes Viacom18 Motion Pictures, a fully-integrated motion pictures studio, and Tipping Point, a digital content unit. Viacom18 Motion Pictures also partners with Paramount to market and distribute Paramount films for theatrical exhibition in the Indian sub-continent.

Pluto TV is a leading free streaming TV platform in the U.S. Pluto TV is available across mobile devices, desktops, streaming players and game consoles and is integrated across a growing number of Smart TVs and other video and broadband platforms.

With more than 22 million monthly active users in the U.S., the majority of whom are on connected TVs, and over 175 content partners, Pluto TV offers over 250 live linear channels and thousands of hours of on-demand content, including movies, news, sports, general entertainment, African Americans, kids and digital series. In July 2019, Pluto 

I-12

TV launched Pluto TV Latino, a suite of 22 channels streaming over 4,000 hours of programming in Spanish and Portuguese, including hit TV series and movies, sports, reality, lifestyle and more. In addition, Pluto TV is available in the UK, Germany, Austria and Switzerland, and plans to expand to Latin America and additional territories.

FILMED ENTERTAINMENT

Overview

Our Filmed Entertainment segment develops, produces, finances, acquires and distributes films, television programming and other entertainment content in various markets and media worldwide through its Paramount Pictures, Paramount Players, Paramount Animation and Paramount Television Studios divisions. It partners on various projects with key ViacomCBS brands, including Nickelodeon Movies, MTV Films® and BET Films™.

Films produced, acquired and/or distributed by the Filmed Entertainment segment are generally first exhibited theatrically in domestic and/or international markets and then released in various markets through airlines and hotels, electronic sell-through, DVDs and Blu-ray discs, transactional video-on-demand (“TVOD”), pay television, SVOD, basic cable television, free television and free video-on-demand (“FVOD”).

Our Filmed Entertainment segment’s revenues are generated primarily from the release and/or distribution of films theatrically, the release and/or distribution of film and television product through home entertainment, the licensing of film and television product to television and digital platforms and other ancillary activities. In 2019, our Filmed Entertainment segment licensing revenues, home entertainment revenues and theatrical revenues were approximately 57%, 21% and 18%, respectively, of total revenues for this segment. Our Filmed Entertainment segment generated 10%, 11% and 12% of our consolidated revenues in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Paramount Pictures is a major global producer and distributor of filmed entertainment and has an extensive library consisting of approximately 1,300 film titles produced by Paramount, acquired rights to approximately 2,100 additional films and a number of television programs. Paramount’s library includes many Academy Award winners, including Titanic, Braveheart, Forrest Gump, The Godfather, The Godfather Part II and Wings, which won the first Academy Award ever awarded for Best Picture in 1929. The Paramount library also includes other Academy Award Best Picture nominees such as Arrival, Fences, The Big Short, Selma and The Wolf of Wall Street, classics such as The Ten Commandments, Breakfast at Tiffany’s and Sunset Boulevard, and a number of successful franchises such as Mission: Impossible, Transformers, Star Trek and Paranormal Activity. In 2019, Paramount’s theatrical releases included Terminator: Dark Fate, Rocketman, Gemini Man, Pet Sematary, Crawl and Playing with Fire. 

Paramount Players aims to expand Paramount’s slate of films by partnering with our Cable Networks brands to develop, produce and release distinctive feature films that showcase the network brands to movie audiences worldwide. Paramount Players also focuses on modest budget films of specific genres for target audiences. In 2019, Paramount 

I-13

Players produced Dora and the Lost City of Gold, a live-action adaptation of the classic Nickelodeon series Dora the Explorer, co-produced with Nickelodeon Movies.

Paramount Animation creates high-quality animated films and aims to release one to two titles per year. In 2019, Paramount Animation released Wonder Park, a film about the adventures of a young girl in a magical amusement park. 

Paramount Television Studios develops and finances a wide range of original, premium television content across all types of media platforms for distribution worldwide. Paramount Television Studios’ productions include Tom Clancy’s Jack Ryan for Amazon; 13 Reasons Why for Netflix; The Alienist and The Angel of Darkness for TNT; Catch-22 for Hulu; Defending Jacob for Apple; Boomerang and First Wives Club for BET and BET+, respectively; and Berlin Station for EPIX. In 2019, Paramount Television Studios’ programming received seven Emmy® nominations.

Film Production, Distribution and Financing

Paramount produces many of the films it releases and also acquires films for distribution from third parties. In some cases, Paramount co-finances and/or co-distributes films with third parties, including other studios. Paramount also enters into film-specific financing and slate financing arrangements from time to time under which third parties participate in the financing of the costs of a film or group of films in exchange for an economic participation and a partial copyright interest. Paramount distributes films worldwide or in select territories or media, and may engage third-party distributors for certain pictures in certain territories.

Paramount has several multi-picture production, distribution and financing relationships, including its agreement with Skydance Productions (“Skydance”), under which Paramount and Skydance produce and finance certain films, and Paramount has a first look on Skydance-initiated projects. Paramount also has an agreement with Hasbro Inc. (“Hasbro”) involving the production, financing and distribution of live action and animated films based on Hasbro’s expansive list of properties. In December 2019, in connection with ViacomCBS’ entry into an agreement to acquire a 49% interest in Miramax, Paramount and Miramax entered into first-look, co-financing and distribution agreements under which they will collaborate on production and financing of new film and television projects, and Paramount will distribute such new projects, as well as Miramax library content.

Domestically, Paramount generally performs marketing and distribution services for theatrical releases and sales and marketing services for its home entertainment releases. Paramount has an agreement with Universal Studios for certain back-office and distribution services for all physical DVD and Blu-ray discs released by Paramount in the U.S. and Canada. Paramount also distributes CBS’ television and other library content and Nickelodeon television shows on DVD and Blu-ray disc on a worldwide basis. Internationally, Paramount generally distributes its theatrical releases through its own international affiliates or, in territories where it does not have an operating presence, through United International Pictures, a joint venture with Universal Studios. For home entertainment releases, Paramount’s physical DVD and Blu-ray discs are distributed in certain international territories by Universal Pictures Home 

I-14

Entertainment and in certain other territories by Paramount licensees. Paramount also distributes films and television shows domestically and internationally on electronic sell-through, TVOD, SVOD, FVOD and television platforms. In the first domestic pay television distribution window, Paramount’s feature films initially theatrically released in the U.S. are generally exhibited on EPIX.

Producing, marketing and distributing films and television programming can involve significant costs, and the timing of a film’s release can cause our financial results to vary. For example, marketing costs are generally incurred before and throughout the theatrical release of a film and, to a lesser extent, other distribution windows, and are expensed as incurred. As a result, we typically incur losses with respect to a particular film prior to and during the film’s theatrical exhibition, and recoupment of investment as well as profitability for the film may not be realized until well after its theatrical release. Therefore, the results of the Filmed Entertainment segment can be volatile as films work their way through the various distribution windows.

PUBLISHING

Our Publishing segment consists of Simon & Schuster, which publishes and distributes adult and children’s consumer books in printed, digital and audio formats in the U.S. and internationally. Its digital formats include electronic books and audio books.

Simon & Schuster’s major adult imprints include Simon & Schuster, Scribner, Atria Books and Gallery Books. Simon & Schuster’s major children’s imprints include Simon & Schuster Books For Young Readers™, Aladdin® and Little Simon®. Simon & Schuster also develops special imprints and publishes titles based on the products of certain of our businesses as well as those of third parties and distributes products for other publishers. Simon & Schuster distributes its products directly and through third parties. Simon & Schuster also delivers content and promotes its products on its own websites, social media, and general Internet sites as well as those dedicated to individual titles. International publishing includes the international distribution of English-language titles through Simon & Schuster in the UK, Canada, Australia and India and other distributors, as well as the publication of locally originated titles by its international companies.

In 2019, Simon & Schuster had 200 New York Times bestsellers in hardcover, paperback, audio and combined print and ebook formats, collectively, including 21 New York Times #1 bestsellers. Best-selling titles in 2019 included Howard Stern Comes Again by Howard Stern, The Institute by Stephen King and The Pioneers by David McCullough. Best-selling children’s titles included Dork Diaries 14: Tales from a Not-So-Best Friend Forever by Rachel Renée Russell and Red Scrolls of Magic by Cassandra Clare. Simon & Schuster Digital™, through SimonandSchuster.com, publishes original content, builds reader communities and promotes and sells Simon & Schuster’s books over the Internet.

Our Publishing segment’s revenues are generated from the publishing and distribution of consumer books in print, digital and audio formats. In 2019, the sale of digital content represented approximately 25% of Publishing’s revenues. Our Publishing segment generated 3% of our consolidated revenues in each of 2019, 2018 and 2017.

REVENUES

Our TV Entertainment, Cable Networks, Filmed Entertainment and Publishing segments generate advertising revenues, affiliate revenues, content licensing revenues, theatrical revenues and publishing revenues. For additional information regarding our sources of revenues, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition – Consolidated Results of Operations – 2019 vs. 2018 – Revenues” and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” For information regarding seasonal factors affecting our revenues, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Our revenues, expenses and operating 

I-15

results may vary based on the timing, mix, number and availability of our films and other programming and on seasonal factors.”

Advertising

Advertising revenues are generated primarily from the sale of advertising spots on the CBS Television Network, our basic cable networks and our television stations, as well as on our ad-supported streaming services, including CBS All Access and Pluto TV, and on our websites. Our advertising revenues include integrated marketing services, which provide unique branded content and custom sponsorship opportunities to our advertisers, as well as advanced marketing solutions, including addressable video and brand solutions.

Affiliate

Affiliate revenues are principally comprised of fees received from MVPDs and virtual MVPDs for carriage of our cable networks, fees received from television stations affiliated with the CBS Television Network, fees for authorizing the MVPDs’ and virtual MVPDs’ carriage of our owned television stations, and subscription fees for our streaming services. 

Content Licensing

Content licensing revenues are principally comprised of fees from the licensing of exhibition rights for our internally-produced television and film programming to television stations, cable networks and SVOD and FVOD services; home entertainment revenues, which are derived from the sale and distribution of our content through DVDs and Blu-ray discs to wholesale and retail partners, as well as from the viewing of our content on a transactional basis through TVOD and electronic sell-through services; fees from the use of our trademarks and brands for consumer products, recreation and live events, and fees from the distribution of third-party programming.

Theatrical

Theatrical revenues are principally comprised of the worldwide theatrical distribution of films through audience ticket sales.

Publishing

Publishing revenues are principally comprised of the domestic and international publishing and distribution of consumer books in printed, digital and audio formats.

COMPETITION

All of our businesses operate in highly competitive environments, and compete for creative talent and intellectual property, as well as audience and distribution of our content. 

Our TV Entertainment, Cable Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete with a variety of media companies that have substantial resources to produce and acquire content worldwide, including broadcast networks, basic and premium cable networks, streaming services, film and television studios, production groups, independent producers and syndicators, television stations and television station groups. These segments compete with other content creators for creative talent including producers, directors, actors and writers, as well as for new program ideas and intellectual property and for the acquisition of popular programming. Similarly, our Publishing segment competes with large publishers for the rights to works by authors, and competition is particularly strong for well-known authors and public personalities.

Our businesses also face significant competition for audience share from various sources. Our Filmed Entertainment segment competes for audiences for its theatrical films with releases by other major film studios, television producers and streaming services as well as with other forms of entertainment and consumer spending 

I-16

outlets. Our TV Entertainment and Cable Networks segments compete for audiences and advertising revenues primarily with other cable and broadcast television networks; social media platforms; websites, apps and other online experiences; radio programming; and print media. In addition, our television and basic cable networks businesses face increasing competition from technologies providing digital audio and visual content in ways that allow audiences to consume content of their choosing while avoiding traditional commercial advertising. Moreover, our businesses face competition from the many other entertainment options available to consumers including video games, sports, travel and outdoor recreation.

We also face competition for distribution of our content. Our TV Entertainment and Cable Networks segments compete for distribution of our program services (and receipt of related fees) with other broadcast networks, cable networks and programmers. The CBS Television Network also competes with other broadcast networks to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations to ensure the effective distribution of network programming nationwide. Our TV Entertainment, Cable Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete with studios and other producers of entertainment content for distribution on third party platforms. Our Publishing segment competes with large publishers for sales to retailers, and mass merchandisers and on-line retailers have contributed to a general trend toward consolidation in the retail channel. In addition, the growth of the electronic book market has impacted print book retailers and wholesalers, and could result in a reduction of these channels for the sales and marketing of our books.

For additional information regarding competition, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Our businesses operate in industries that are highly competitive and swiftly consolidating.”

ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE STRATEGY

ViacomCBS is committed to responsible and sustainable business practices, which strengthen our ability to innovate and better serve our partners, audiences and stockholders. We are proactively identifying, measuring and mapping the environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) impacts of our global operations and are working to manage and report on various non-financial ESG impacts in an effort to transparently address them with stakeholders.

As content creators, we are passionate about entertaining and informing the world and are committed to our legacy of creating lasting impact through our work. From groundbreaking HIV awareness initiatives to campaigns supporting education, the empowerment of women and youth, health issues and the military, veterans and their families, we have always strived to be at the forefront of championing the causes that matter to our audiences. Today, we continue to leverage our brands and our global reach to amplify the efforts of those who are working to make positive changes in their communities. Striving to be a good corporate citizen and to make a positive impact in communities around the world is fundamental to what we do every day. Below are just a few examples of our efforts:

We continue to use the immense power of our media platforms to heighten social awareness on important issues through our award-winning CBS Cares public service announcement (“PSA”) campaigns. In 2019, the CBS Television Network scheduled CBS Cares PSAs with an estimated value of $276 million and featuring a wide array of CBS talent on a variety of important topics such as heritage and history months, child advocacy, empowerment of women and girls, support for the military, veterans and their families, and health awareness. Examples include:

•We and Girls Inc. created a PSA that aired in-game during the CBS Television Network’s Super Bowl LIII coverage, and post-game on the CBS Sports Network. Featuring the voiceover of CBS This Morning’s Gayle King and players from the NY Giants, the PSA encourages girls to believe they can succeed at the highest levels.

I-17

•We produce and air annual PSAs as part of our commitment to honor the victims of the Holocaust on International Holocaust Remembrance Day.

•We and the Association of National Advertisers again teamed up for a multi-pronged partnership in support of the #SeeHer initiative to accurately portray girls and women in media. Supporting PSAs ran in primetime as part of Women’s History Month and featured Norah O’Donnell, Gayle King, Tea Leoni, Carrie Ann Inaba and others.

•CBS Cares tackled the issue of sexual harassment, by continuing to air PSAs featuring Bridget Moynahan, Daniela Ruah and Aisha Tyler.

•PSAs featuring Shemar Moore, Aisha Tyler, Sara Gilbert and Sheryl Underwood continued to air, teaching children about the importance of other cultures, races and religions, and emphasizing that we are all enriched by our differences.

Get Schooled inspires and empowers students nationwide to thrive in high school, college and their first jobs through a unique blend of powerful digital content, gamification and personalized support. In its 10-year history, Get Schooled has partnered with over 15,000 educators and their students, and has been recognized by Fast Company as a “Most Innovative Company.”

The Save The Music Foundation helps kids, schools, and communities realize their full potential through the power of making music. Founded in 1997, Save The Music partners with school districts and raises funds to restore music programs in public schools. Since inception, we have donated over $58 million worth of new musical instruments and technology to 2,159 schools in 276 school districts around the country, impacting the lives of countless students.

Beyond the Backpack is a celebration of Nickelodeon’s curriculum-based preschool properties. The initiative champions kindergarten and pre-k readiness by providing fun, simple and unique tools to address the five areas identified as critical to educational success: Family Engagement, Health & Wellness, Literacy Skills, Social & Emotional Skills, and STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Math) Skills. Beyond the Backpack reinforces the academic community’s view that parents and caregivers are their child's first teachers and that it is never too early to start getting ready. In 2019, Nickelodeon donated 75,000 printed toolkits and 2,500 backpacks full of school supplies.

I-18

Paramount has a long and proud tradition of giving back with a corporate social responsibility program focused on four key initiatives: supporting public education; protecting the environment; combating HIV/AIDS; and promoting volunteerism. By offering employee engagement opportunities, coupled with financial and in-kind contributions, Paramount supports numerous local, national, and global non-profit organizations. Kindergarten to Cap & Gown - Paramount’s signature education program - mentors students through their educational experience, targeting four partner schools in Paramount’s Los Angeles neighborhood.

In 2019, Paramount Network debuted the first installments of Take Action - a short-form digital documentary series addressing important social issues related to our content themes. We believe that stories of individual volunteers and activists have the power to connect us, inspire action and, ultimately, create real change. Each film includes a call-to-action, partnering with a nonprofit organization to give the audience the opportunity to learn more and take action themselves.

The MTV Staying Alive Foundation produces multi-award-winning, impactful behavior change campaigns to further its purpose of storytelling to save lives and enable young people to make empowered, informed choices about their health and wellbeing.

Our robust Veterans Network (“VetNet”) engages in multiple programs and supports numerous veteran-related causes. Among its activities in 2019, VetNet worked with our legal teams to provide more than 4,000 hours of critical, pro-bono legal assistance to more than 200 veterans and their families, representing approximately $1.5 million of legal fees donated; hosted a virtual career advice event for veterans in partnership with American Corporate Partners; worked with partners to provide mentorship and internships for 850 veterans; and collected more than 100,000 donations, including toys for veteran families and toiletries for the homeless. 

REGULATION AND PROTECTION OF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We are, fundamentally, a content company, so the trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property laws that protect our brands and content are of paramount importance to us. Our businesses and the intellectual property they create or acquire are subject to and affected by laws and regulations of U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities, as well as laws and regulations of countries other than the U.S. and pan-national bodies such as the European Union (“EU”). The laws and regulations affecting our businesses are constantly subject to change, as are the protections that those laws and regulations afford us. The discussion below describes certain, but not all, present and proposed laws and regulations affecting our businesses.

I-19

FCC and Similar Regulation

General. Broadcast television and certain aspects of cable programming are subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC pursuant to the Communications Act. The Communications Act empowers the FCC, among other actions, to issue, renew, revoke and modify broadcasting licenses; penalize broadcasters for airing indecent or profane content; regulate the airing of emergency alerting and the use of emergency alerting tones by broadcasters or cable channels; require video programming to be accessible to persons with disabilities; determine stations’ frequencies, locations and operating power; and impose penalties for violation of its regulations, including monetary forfeitures, short-term renewal of licenses and, in egregious cases, license revocation or denial of license renewals.

Under the Communications Act, the FCC also regulates certain aspects of the operation of MVPDs and certain other electronic media that compete with broadcast stations and cable programming.

We provide below a brief summary of certain laws and FCC regulations under which we operate.

License Renewals. Television broadcast licenses are typically granted for standard terms of eight years. The Communications Act requires the FCC to renew a broadcast license if the FCC finds that the station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity and, with respect to the station, there have been no serious violations by the licensee of either the Communications Act or the FCC’s rules and regulations and there have been no other violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or the FCC’s rules and regulations that, taken together, constitute a pattern of abuse. We have no pending renewal applications, but we will be filing renewal applications with respect to all of our stations on a staggered basis between 2020 and 2023. A station remains authorized to operate while its license renewal application is pending.

License Assignments and Transfers of Licensee Control. The Communications Act requires prior FCC approval for the assignment of a license or transfer of control of an FCC licensee. Third parties may oppose our applications to assign, acquire, or transfer control of broadcast licenses.

Ownership Regulation. The Communications Act and FCC rules and regulations limit the ability of individuals and entities to have certain official positions or ownership interests, known as “attributable” interests, above specific levels in broadcast stations. In seeking FCC approval for the acquisition of a broadcast station license, the acquiring person or entity must demonstrate that the acquisition complies with the FCC’s ownership rules or that a waiver of the rules is in the public interest.

Below are descriptions of broadcast ownership rules. The FCC is reviewing its local television ownership and dual network rules through its most recent quadrennial review that commenced in November 2018 and is separately reviewing its television national audience reach rule. The FCC had relaxed certain of these rules in 2017, but in November 2019, a federal appellate court vacated that 2017 action and ordered the FCC to conduct further proceedings.

Local Television Ownership. The FCC’s local television ownership rule limits the number of full-power television stations that may be commonly owned in the same DMA. For example, common ownership of two full-power stations in a market generally is allowed only if at least eight independently owned and operating full-power stations will remain in the market following the acquisition of the second station, and if at least one of the stations is outside of the top-four ranked stations in the market based on audience share.

Dual Network Rule. The dual network rule prohibits any of the four major networks, ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC, from combining or being under common control.

Television National Audience Reach Limitation. Under the national television ownership rule, one party may not own television stations that reach more than 39% of all U.S. television households, although under current FCC rules a UHF station is attributed with reaching only 50% of the television households in its market. In December 2017, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking pursuant to which it will consider modifying, retaining or eliminating the 39% national television audience reach limitation and/or the UHF 

I-20

discount. We currently own and operate television stations that reach approximately 38% or 25% of all U.S. television households on an undiscounted or discounted basis, respectively.

Cross-ownership restrictions. FCC “cross-ownership” rules reinstated as a result of a decision by a federal appellate court (a) prohibit common ownership of one or more broadcast stations (whether radio or television) and a daily newspaper in the same DMA, and (b) limit the number of radio and television broadcast stations that may be commonly owned in a given DMA. We do not currently own cognizable interests in any daily newspapers or radio broadcast stations.

Alien Ownership. In general, the Communications Act restricts foreign individuals or entities from collectively owning more than 25% of our voting power or equity. FCC approval is required to exceed the 25% threshold. The FCC has recently approved foreign ownership levels of up to 100% in certain instances, subsequent to its review and approval of specific, named foreign individuals.

Cable and Satellite Carriage of Television Broadcast Stations. The Communications Act and FCC rules govern the retransmission of broadcast television stations by cable system operators, direct broadcast satellite operators, and other MVPDs. Pursuant to these regulations, we have elected to negotiate with MVPDs for the right to carry our broadcast television stations pursuant to retransmission consent agreements. Federal law requires that broadcasters and MVPDs negotiate in good faith for retransmission consent. Some MVPDs have sought changes to federal law that would eliminate or otherwise limit the ability of broadcasters to obtain fair compensation for the grant of retransmission consent.

National Broadband Plan/Post-Auction Repack. In 2017, the FCC concluded a series of voluntary auctions to repurpose certain spectrum then utilized by broadcast television stations for use by wireless broadband services. The FCC has mandated that certain television stations that are continuing to operate subsequent to these auctions must change their channels as the FCC “repacks” the remaining spectrum dedicated to broadcast television use. Congress provided that the FCC will assist television stations in retaining their current coverage areas and established a fund to at least partially reimburse broadcasters for reasonable relocation expenses relating to the spectrum-repacking. Certain broadcast television stations, including some of those owned by us, are in the process of undertaking this repacking process and seeking reimbursement of associated costs.

Program Regulation. The FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. The FCC’s maximum forfeiture penalty per station for broadcasting indecent or profane programming is approximately $415,000 per indecent or profane utterance, with a maximum forfeiture exposure of approximately $3.83 million for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. FCC regulations also prohibit broadcast television stations and cable networks from transmitting or causing the transmission of Emergency Alert System (“EAS”) tones in the absence of an actual emergency, authorized test of the EAS, or a qualified public service announcement. In September 2019, the FCC issued a Notice of Apparent Liability for Forfeiture finding that a CBS Television Network program broadcast in April 2018 violated the EAS rule and imposed a forfeiture of $272,000, which we timely paid.

Broadcast Transmission Standard. In November 2017, the FCC adopted rules to permit television broadcasters to voluntarily broadcast using the “Next Generation” broadcast television transmission standard developed by the Advanced Television Systems Committee, Inc., also called “ATSC 3.0.” Those full-service television stations using the new standard are subject to certain requirements, including the obligation to continue broadcasting a generally identical program stream in the current ATSC 1.0 broadcast standard. The ATSC 3.0 standard can be used to offer better picture quality and improved mobile broadcast viewing. A television station converting to ATSC 3.0 operation will incur significant costs in equipment purchases and upgrades. In addition, consumers may be required to obtain new television sets or other equipment that are capable of receiving ATSC 3.0 broadcasts. We are participating in various ATSC 3.0 testing with other broadcasters, but it is too early to predict any impact of this technical standard on our operations.

Children’s Programming. Our business is subject to various regulations, both in the U.S. and abroad, applicable to children’s programming. Since 1990, federal legislation and rules of the FCC have limited the amount and content 

I-21

of commercial matter that may be shown on broadcast television stations and cable channels during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger, and since 2006 the FCC has limited the display of certain commercial website addresses during children’s programming. Moreover, each of our broadcast television stations is required to air, in general, three hours per week of educational and informational programming (“E/I programming”) designed for children 16 years of age and younger, with at least two of those three hours appearing on the station’s primary program stream. The FCC made certain modifications to its E/I programming rules in 2019, which provided additional flexibility to broadcasters with respect to certain aspects of these rules.

In addition, some policymakers have sought limitations on food and beverage marketing in media popular with children and teens. For example, restrictions on the television advertising of foods high in fat, salt and sugar (“HFSS”) to children aged 15 and under have been in place in the UK since 2007. The UK government is currently considering tighter controls, including a ban on all HFSS advertising before 9:00 p.m. Various laws with similar objectives have also been enacted in Ireland, Turkey, Mexico, Chile, Peru, Taiwan and South Korea, and significant pressure for similar restrictions continues to be felt globally, most acutely in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, India, Hungary, Singapore, South Africa and France. The implementation of these or similar limitations and restrictions could have a negative impact on our Cable Networks advertising revenues, particularly for our networks with programming for children and teens.

Certain Other Regulations Affecting Our Business

Global Data Protection Laws and Children’s Privacy Laws. A number of data protection laws impact, or may impact, the manner in which ViacomCBS collects, processes and transfers personal data. In the EU, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) mandates data protection compliance obligations and authorizes significant fines for noncompliance, requiring significant compliance resources and efforts on our part. Further, a number of other regions where we do business, including the U.S., Asia and Latin America, have enacted or are considering new data protection regulations that may impact our business activities that involve the processing of personal data. For example, in the U.S., the California Consumer Privacy Act, which went into effect on January 1, 2020, creates a host of new obligations for businesses regarding how they handle the personal information of California residents, including creating new data access, data deletion and opt out rights. In addition, some of the mechanisms ViacomCBS relies upon for the transfer of personal data from the EU to the U.S., such as utilizing standard contractual clauses approved by the European Commission (“EC”), have been subject to legal challenges, and the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield framework, which permits the transfer of personal data from the EU to the U.S., is subject to review by the relevant EU and U.S. authorities. The outcomes of these proceedings are uncertain and may require changes to our international data transfer mechanisms.

In addition, we are subject to other laws and regulations intended specifically to protect the interests of children, including the privacy of minors online. The U.S. Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (“COPPA”) limits the collection by operators of websites or online services of personal information online from children under the age of 13. In July 2019, the Federal Trade Commission initiated a review of its regulations implementing COPPA, which we anticipate will be updated to address changes in technology. In the EU, GDPR also limits our ability to process data from children under the age of 16. Such regulations also restrict the types of advertising we are able to sell on these sites and apps and impose strict liability on us for certain actions of ViacomCBS, advertisers and other third parties, which could affect advertising demand and pricing. State and federal policymakers are also considering regulatory and legislative methods to protect consumer privacy on the Internet, and these efforts have focused particular attention on children and teens.

Compliance with enhanced data protection laws, which may be inconsistent with one another, requires additional resources and efforts on our part, and noncompliance with personal data protection regulations could result in increased regulatory enforcement and significant monetary fines.

EU Commission’s Digital Single Market Strategy. The EU continues to pursue its Digital Single Market (“DSM”) Strategy, which contains a broad range of proposals designed to create a more complete EU-wide market for digital goods and services, several of which are likely to impact ViacomCBS’ businesses.

I-22

In November 2018, the EU adopted a number of reforms to the Audiovisual Media Services Directive (the “AVMSD”), which sets content and advertising rules for European broadcasters. The AVMSD applies the country-of-origin principle to linear and non-linear TV services, enabling cross-border broadcasts from a single regulatory jurisdiction, and sets compulsory minimum pan-EU content and advertising rules that Member States may choose to exceed. These reforms include a mandatory quota for European works on on-demand audiovisual services platforms, the option for EU states to introduce levies on the revenues of audiovisual media-service providers, and liberalized rules governing the scheduling of advertising on linear broadcasters. Member States have until September 2020 to transpose the reforms into national law. These changes could impact revenues for the VCNI television channels business in Europe and affiliate deals with platforms for both film and TV distribution.

In June 2019, two new EU directives became effective and may impact the way we acquire and distribute content online. The Copyright Directive introduced a requirement to agree to terms for the carriage of copyrighted content on online platforms (or to remove content in the absence of such agreement), and also granted rights to authors and performers to “fair and proportionate” remuneration, greater transparency and a right to revoke agreements if their work is not adequately exploited. The Online Broadcasting Directive extends the system of mandatory collective exercise of cable retransmission rights to other forms of retransmission including Internet protocol television and mobile, thereby potentially reducing the control that rights owners have over online distribution. EU states have until June 2021 to transpose these Directives into national law, if similar provisions do not already exist.

In 2020, the EU will evaluate the impact of the 2018 EC Geo-blocking Regulation that prohibits unjustified geo-blocking and other forms of discrimination based on customers’ nationality, place of residence or place of establishment. As part of its evaluation, it will consider whether the scope of the regulation should be extended to services that offer audio-visual and other copyrighted content, which may impact content owners’ ability to distribute on an exclusive, territorial basis within the EU.

Restrictions on Content Distribution. In addition to the EU, numerous countries around the world impose restrictions on the amount and nature of content that may be distributed in that country. Such regulations in China have the greatest impact, as only 34 foreign films, as selected by relevant authorities in China, may be distributed annually on a revenue share basis based on box office performance. In addition, in September 2018, China’s film and television regulator, the National Administration of TV and Radio, published proposed regulations that would severely limit the streaming and broadcasting of foreign film and television content in China, further reducing foreign access to the Chinese market.

UK Regulations Affecting Channel 5 Business. As a PSB in the UK, Channel 5 is subject to certain UK Office of Communications (“OFCOM”) broadcasting regulations that impose detailed obligations, including mandating the proportion of total programming and programming during peak hours that must be original productions, the hours devoted to news and current affairs and the proportion of commissioned programming that must be made by independent producers. Channel 5 has also undertaken to air a certain amount of UK-originated children’s programming. Like all UK broadcasters, Channel 5 must abide by the OFCOM Broadcasting Code, which contains content and scheduling regulations relating to harm and offense, protection of individuals under the age of 18, privacy, fairness and product placement, and by OFCOM’s Code on the Scheduling of Television Advertising, which contains regulations on the amount and scheduling of advertising.

Protecting our Content from Copyright Theft

The unauthorized reproduction, distribution, exhibition or other exploitation of copyrighted material interferes with the market for copyrighted works and disrupts our ability to distribute and monetize our content. The theft of films, television, books and other entertainment content presents a significant challenge to our industry, and we take a number of steps to address this concern. Where possible, we use technological protection tools, such as encryption, to protect our content. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, including: monitoring online destinations that distribute or otherwise infringe our content and sending takedown or cease and desist notices in appropriate circumstances; using filtering technologies employed by some user-generated content sites; and pursuing litigation and referrals to law enforcement with respect to websites and other online platforms that distribute or facilitate the distribution and exploitation of our content without authorization. Through 

I-23

partnerships with various organizations, we also are actively involved in educational outreach to the creative community, state and federal government officials and other stakeholders in an effort to marshal greater resources to combat copyright theft. Additionally, we participate in various industry-wide enforcement initiatives, public relations programs and legislative activities on a worldwide basis. We have had notable success with site-blocking efforts in parts of Europe and Asia, which can be effective in diverting consumers from piracy platforms to legitimate platforms.

Notwithstanding these efforts and the many legal protections that exist to combat piracy, the proliferation of content theft and technological tools with which to carry it out continue to be a challenge. The failure to maintain enhanced legal protections and enforcement tools and to update those tools as threats evolve could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could negatively impact its value and further increase the costs of enforcing our rights as we continue to expend substantial resources to protect our content.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We create, own and distribute intellectual property worldwide. It is our practice to protect our films, programs, content, brands, formats, characters, games, publications and other original and acquired works, and ancillary goods and services. The following brands, logos, trade names, trademarks and related trademark families are the most significant of those strongly identified with the product lines they represent and are significant assets of the Company: ViacomCBS™, CBS®, Viacom®, AwesomenessTV®, BET®, CBS All Access®, CBS Entertainment™, CBS Interactive®, CBS News®, CBS Sports®, CBSN®, Channel 5® (UK), CMT®, COLORS®, Comedy Central®, Flix®, MTV®, MTV Films®, Network 10®, Nickelodeon®, Nick at Nite®, Nickelodeon Movies™, Nick Jr.®, Paramount Animation®, Paramount Network®, Paramount Pictures®, Paramount Players™, Paramount Television Studios™, Pluto TV™, Pop TV™, Showtime®, Simon & Schuster®, Smithsonian Channel™, Telefe® (Argentina), The Movie Channel®, TV Land®, VH1®, VidCon®, WhoSay® and other domestic and international program services and digital properties and all the call letters for our stations.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2019, we employed approximately 23,990 full-time and part-time employees worldwide, and had approximately 4,580 additional project-based staff on our payroll. We also use many other temporary employees in the ordinary course of our business.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the SEC. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, will be available free of charge on our website at www.viacbs.com (under “Investors”) as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with the SEC. These documents are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,” contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements that are not statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations concerning future results, objectives, plans and goals, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause future results, performance or achievements to differ. These risks, uncertainties and other factors are discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” below. Other risks, or updates to the risks discussed below, may be described in our news releases and filings with the SEC, including but not limited to our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.

I-24

Item 1A. Risk Factors.