Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Our financial position is exposed to a variety of risks, including interest rate risk, equity price risk, and foreign currency exchange risk. We have seen an increase in these risks and related uncertainties with increased volatility in the financial markets in the current environment with the COVID-19 pandemic.

Interest Rate Risk

Available-for-Sale Debt Investments We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. Our primary objective for holding available-for-sale debt investments is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk. At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our available-for-sale debt investment portfolio. Conversely, declines in interest rates as has also happened recently, including the impact from lower credit spreads, could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. We may utilize derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments to achieve our investment objectives. We had no outstanding hedging instruments for our available-for-sale debt investments as of July 25, 2020. Our available-for-sale debt investments are held for purposes other than trading. Our available-for-sale debt investments are not leveraged as of July 25, 2020. We monitor our interest rate and credit risks, including our credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong.

The following tables present the hypothetical fair values of our available-for-sale debt investments, including the hedging effects when applicable, as a result of selected potential market decreases and increases in interest rates. The market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (BPS), plus 100 BPS, and plus 150 BPS. The hypothetical fair values as of July 25, 2020 and July 27, 2019 are as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Financing Receivables As of July 25, 2020, our financing receivables had a carrying value of $10.8 billion, compared with $10.1 billion as of July 27, 2019. As of July 25, 2020, a hypothetical 50 BPS increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of our financing receivables by a decrease or increase of approximately $0.1 billion, respectively. 

Debt As of July 25, 2020, we had $14.5 billion in principal amount of senior fixed-rate notes outstanding. The carrying amount of the senior notes was $14.6 billion, and the related fair value based on market prices was $17.4 billion. As of July 25, 2020, a hypothetical 50 BPS increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate debt, excluding the $2.5 billion of hedged debt, by a decrease or increase of approximately $0.5 billion, respectively. However, this hypothetical change in interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt that is not hedged.

Equity Price Risk

Marketable Equity Investments The fair value of our marketable equity investments is subject to market price volatility. We may hold equity securities for strategic purposes or to diversify our overall investment portfolio. These equity securities are held for purposes other than trading. We had no outstanding marketable equity securities as of July 25, 2020.

Non-marketable Equity and Other Investments These investments are recorded in other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of July 25, 2020, the total carrying amount of our non-marketable equity and other investments was $1.3 billion, compared with $1.2 billion at July 27, 2019. Some of these companies in which we invested are in the startup or development stages. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire investment in these companies. Our evaluation of non-marketable equity and other investments is based on the fundamentals of the businesses invested in, including, among other factors, the nature of their technologies and potential for financial return. 

53
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

Our foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at fiscal year-end are summarized in U.S. dollar equivalents as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At July 25, 2020 and July 27, 2019, we had no option contracts outstanding. 

We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on revenue has not been material because our revenue is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our revenue to the extent it raises the cost of our products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or predict because our revenue is influenced by many factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations.

Approximately 70% of our operating expenses are U.S.-dollar denominated. In fiscal 2020, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased our combined R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by approximately $141 million, or 0.8%, as compared with fiscal 2019. To reduce variability in operating expenses and service cost of sales caused by non-U.S.-dollar denominated operating expenses and costs, we may hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions with currency options and forward contracts. These hedging programs are not designed to provide foreign currency protection over long time horizons. In designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. The gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts mitigate the effect of currency movements on our operating expenses and service cost of sales.

We also enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities. The market risks associated with these foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables relate primarily to variances from our forecasted foreign currency transactions and balances. We do not enter into foreign exchange forward or option contracts for speculative purposes.

54
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data