PART II

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

TERMS USED BY CSX

When used in this report, unless otherwise indicated by the context, these terms are used to mean the following:

Car hire - A charge paid by one railroad for its use of cars belonging to another railroad or car owner.

Class I freight railroad - One of the largest line haul freight railroads as determined based on operating revenue; the exact revenue required to be in each class is periodically adjusted for inflation by the Surface Transportation Board. Smaller railroads are classified as Class II or Class III. 

Common carrier mandate - A federal mandate that requires U.S. railroads to accommodate reasonable requests from shippers to carry any freight, including hazardous materials.

Demurrage - A charge assessed by railroads for the use of rail cars by shippers or receivers of freight beyond a specified free time.

Department of Transportation ("DOT") - A U.S. government agency with jurisdiction over matters of all modes of transportation.

Depreciation study - Conducted by a third-party specialist and analyzed by management, a periodic statistical analysis of fixed asset service lives, salvage values, accumulated depreciation, and other factors for group assets along with a comparison of similar asset groups at other companies.

Double-stack - Stacking containers two-high on specially equipped cars. 

Drayage - The pickup or delivery of intermodal shipments by truck.

Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) - A U.S. government agency that has regulatory authority with respect to environmental law.

Federal Railroad Administration ("FRA") - The branch of the DOT that is responsible for developing and enforcing railroad safety regulations, including safety standards for rail infrastructure and equipment.

Free cash flow - The calculation of a non-GAAP measure by using net cash provided by operating activities and adjusting for property additions and certain other investing activities. Free cash flow is a measure of cash available for paying dividends, share repurchases and principal reduction on outstanding debt. 

Group-life depreciation - A type of depreciation in which assets with similar useful lives and characteristics are aggregated into groups. Instead of calculating depreciation for individual assets, depreciation is calculated as a whole for each group.

Incidental revenue - Revenue for switching, demurrage, storage, etc.

Intermodal - A flexible way of transporting freight over highway, rail and water without being removed from the original transportation equipment, namely a container or trailer.

Mainline - The main track thoroughfare, exclusive of terminals, yards, sidings and turnouts.

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 22

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (“PHMSA”) - An agency within the DOT that, together with the FRA, has broad jurisdiction over railroad operating standards and practices, including hazardous materials requirements. 

Positive Train Control ("PTC") - An interoperable train control system designed to prevent train-to-train collisions, over-speed derailments, incursions into established work-zone limits, and train diversions onto another set of tracks.

Revenue adequacy - The achievement of a rate of return on investment at least equal to the industry cost of investment capital, as measured by the STB. 

Shipper - A customer shipping freight via rail.

Siding - Track adjacent to the mainline used for passing trains. 

Staggers Act of 1980 - Congressional law which significantly deregulated the rail industry, replacing the regulatory structure in existence since the 1887 Interstate Commerce Act. Where previously rates were controlled by the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Staggers Act allowed railroads to establish their own rates for shipments, enhancing their ability to compete with other modes of transportation.

Surface Transportation Board ("STB") - An independent governmental adjudicatory body administratively housed within the DOT, responsible for the economic regulation of interstate surface transportation within the United States.

Switching - Putting cars in a specific order, placing cars for loading, retrieving empty cars or adding or removing cars from a train at an intermediate point. 

Terminal - A facility, typically owned by a railroad, for the handling of freight and for the breaking up, making up, forwarding and servicing of trains. 

Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”) - A component of the Department of Homeland Security with broad authority over railroad operating practices that may have homeland security implications. 

TTX Company ("TTX") - A company that provides its owner-railroads with standardized fleets of intermodal, automotive and general use railcars at time and mileage rates. CSX owns about 20 percent of TTX's common stock, and the remainder is owned by the other leading North American railroads and their affiliates.

Turnout - A track that diverts trains from one track to another. 

Yard - A system of tracks, other than main tracks and sidings, used for making up trains, storing cars and other purposes. 

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 23

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

2019 HIGHLIGHTS

• Revenue of $11.9 billion decreased $313 million or 3% versus the prior year.

• Expenses of $7.0 billion decreased $409 million or 6% year over year.

• Operating income of $5.0 billion increased $96 million or 2% year over year. 

• Operating ratio of 58.4% improved 190 basis points from 60.3%. 

• Earnings per diluted share of $4.17 increased $0.33 or 9% year over year. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

2019 vs. 2018 Results of Operations 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 24

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

2019 vs. 2018 Results of Operations, continued

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 25

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

Revenue

In 2019, revenue decreased $313 million, or 3%, when compared to the previous year due to volume declines, lower other revenue and decreases in fuel recovery. These decreases were partially offset by merchandise and intermodal pricing gains and favorable mix.

Merchandise Volume

Chemicals - Declined due to reduced natural gas liquids and fly ash shipments, partially offset by growth in crude oil as well as industrial and municipal waste.

Agricultural and Food Products - Increased due to gains in feed grain and ingredients, ethanol, as well as sweeteners and oils.

Automotive - Declined due to lower passenger car shipments, partially offset by higher shipments of trucks and SUVs.

Minerals - Increased due to higher shipments for highway construction and paving projects.

Forest Products - Increased due to higher demand for wood pulp and other fiber products as well as lumber, partially offset by reduced pulpboard shipments.

Metals and Equipment - Declined due to reduced metals shipments, primarily in the steel, construction and scrap markets.

Fertilizers - Declined due to unfavorable weather conditions throughout the year that impacted fertilizer applications.

Coal Volume

Domestic coal declined primarily due to lower shipments of utility coal as a result of continued competition from natural gas, partially offset by stronger shipments for coke, iron ore and other coal. Export coal declined due to lower international shipments of both thermal and metallurgical coal as global benchmark prices declined.

Intermodal Volume

Domestic and international intermodal declined primarily due to rationalization of low-density lanes.

Other 

Other revenue decreased $64 million versus prior year primarily due to lower revenue for storage at intermodal facilities and a decrease in settlements from customers that did not meet volume commitments. These decreases were partially offset by a favorable contract settlement with a customer.

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 26

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

Expense

In 2019, total expenses decreased $409 million, or 6%, compared to prior year. Descriptions of each expense category as well as significant year-over-year changes are described below. 

Labor and Fringe expenses include employee wages and related payroll taxes, health and welfare costs, pension, other post-retirement benefits and incentive compensation. These expenses decreased $122 million due to the following items:

•Efficiency and volume savings of $157 million primarily resulted from lower headcount and reduced crew starts.

•Incentive compensation decreased $12 million primarily due to lower expected annual incentive payouts, partially offset by the acceleration of stock compensation expense for certain retirement-eligible employees.

•Other costs increased $47 million primarily due to inflation that was partially offset by several non-significant items.

Materials, Supplies and Other expenses consist primarily of contracted services to maintain infrastructure and equipment, terminal and pier services and professional services. This category also includes costs related to materials, travel, casualty claims, environmental remediation, train accidents, property and sales tax, utilities and other items including gains on property dispositions. Total materials, supplies and other expenses decreased $183 million driven by the following:

•Efficiency and volume savings of $201 million primarily resulted from lower operating support costs, reduced equipment maintenance expenses and lower terminal and trucking costs. 

•Gains from real estate and line sales were $151 million in 2019 compared to $154 million in 2018. 

•All other costs increased $15 million primarily due to inflation and favorable adjustments to casualty reserves in 2018, partially offset by other items.

Depreciation expense primarily relates to recognizing the costs of a capital asset, such as locomotives, railcars and track structure, over its useful life. This expense is impacted primarily by the capital expenditures made each year. Depreciation expense increased $18 million due to a larger asset base and a 2019 equipment depreciation study that resulted in $10 million of additional expense, partially offset by other non-significant items. 

Fuel expense includes locomotive diesel fuel as well as non-locomotive fuel. This expense is largely driven by the market price and locomotive consumption of diesel fuel. Fuel expense decreased $140 million primarily due to an 8% price decrease that drove savings of $74 million, a 4% improvement in fuel efficiency and volume savings.

Equipment and Other expenses include rent paid for freight cars owned by other railroads or private companies, net of rents received by CSXT for use of its equipment. This category of expenses also includes expenses for short-term and long-term leases of locomotives, railcars, containers and trailers, offices and other rentals. These expenses increased $13 million primarily due to inflation as well as several non-significant items, partially offset by volume and efficiency savings. 

Equity Earnings of Affiliates includes earnings from operating equity method investments. Equity earnings of affiliates decreased $5 million primarily due to lower net earnings at TTX.

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 27

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

Interest Expense

Interest Expense includes interest on long-term debt, equipment obligations and finance leases. Interest expense increased $98 million to $737 million primarily due to higher average debt balances, partially offset by lower average rates.

Other Income - Net

Other Income - Net includes investment gains, losses and interest income, as well as components of net periodic pension and post-retirement benefit cost and other non-operating activities. Other income increased $14 million to $88 million primarily due to increased interest income as a result of higher average investment balances.

Income Tax Expense

Income Tax Expense decreased $10 million primarily due to tax benefits from the impacts of stock option exercises and the vesting of other equity awards as well as the resolution of certain state tax matters, partially offset by benefits in 2018 related to state legislative changes and a federal deferred tax adjustment.

Net Earnings and Earnings per Diluted Share

Net Earnings increased $22 million to $3.3 billion, and earnings per diluted share increased $0.33 to $4.17, due to the factors mentioned above. Average shares outstanding was lower as a result of share repurchase activity during the year and had a favorable impact on earnings per diluted share.

2018 vs. 2017 Results of Operations

See discussion of 2018 results of operations compared to 2017 results of operations in Part II, Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 28

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

Non-GAAP Measures - Unaudited

CSX reports its financial results in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). CSX also uses certain non-GAAP measures that fall within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G and Regulation S-K Item 10(e), which may provide users of the financial information with additional meaningful comparison to prior reported results. Non-GAAP measures do not have standardized definitions and are not defined by GAAP. Therefore, CSX’s non-GAAP measures are unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies. The presentation of these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or as superior to the financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to corresponding GAAP measures are below.

2017 Adjusted Operating Results

Management believes that adjusted operating income, adjusted operating ratio, adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per share, assuming dilution are important in evaluating the Company’s operating performance and for planning and forecasting future business operations and future profitability. These non-GAAP measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding operating results because they exclude certain significant items that are not considered indicative of future financial trends. 

The impact of tax reform and the restructuring charge on 2017 operating results are shown in the following table. There were no adjustments to operating results in 2018 or 2019. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) The restructuring charge was tax effected using rates reflective of the applicable tax amounts for each component of the restructuring charge. 

(b) The total restructuring charge was $325 million, of which $85 million was included in Restructuring Charge - Non-Operating on the consolidated income statement.

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 29

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Free Cash Flow

Management believes that free cash flow is useful to investors as it is important in evaluating the Company’s financial performance. More specifically, free cash flow measures cash generated by the business after reinvestment. This measure represents cash available for both equity and bond investors to be used for dividends, share repurchases or principal reduction on outstanding debt. Free cash flow is calculated by using net cash from operations and adjusting for property additions and certain other investing activities, which includes proceeds from property dispositions. Adjusted free cash flow excludes the impact of cash payments for restructuring charge. Free cash flow and adjusted free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than a substitute for, cash provided by operating activities. Adjusted free cash flow before dividends increased $279 million year-over-year to $3.5 billion primarily due to an increase in cash provided by operating activities and a decrease in property additions.

The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities (GAAP measure) to free cash flow and adjusted free cash flow (both non-GAAP measures). 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) The restructuring charge impact to free cash flow was tax effected using the applicable tax rate of the charge. During 2018 and 2017, the Company made cash payments of $15 million and $187 million, respectively, related to the restructuring charge. Also in 2017, the Company made $30 million in payments to a former CEO and a former President for previously accrued non-qualified pension benefits that are not included in the restructuring charge.

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 30

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

Operating Statistics (Estimated)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) The methodology for calculating train velocity and dwell differ from that prescribed by the STB as the Company believes these numbers more accurately reflect railroad performance. CSXT will continue to report train velocity and dwell, using the prescribed methodology, to the STB on a weekly basis. See additional discussion on the Company's website.

(b) During 2019, the calculation of on-time arrivals has changed to consider a train "on time" if it is delivered within two hours of scheduled arrival. Prior year periods have been restated to conform to this change.

Certain operating statistics are estimated and can continue to be updated as actuals settle.

Key Performance Measures Definitions

Train Velocity - Average train speed between origin and destination in miles per hour (does not include locals, yard jobs, work trains or passenger trains). Train velocity measures the profiled schedule of trains (from departure to arrival and all interim time), and train profiles are periodically updated to align with a changing operation.

Dwell - Average amount of time in hours between car arrival to and departure from the yard.

Revenue Ton-Miles (RTM's) - The movement of one revenue-producing ton of freight over a distance of one mile.

Gross Ton-Miles (GTM's) - The movement of one ton of train weight over one mile. GTM's are calculated by multiplying total train weight by distance the train moved. Total train weight is comprised of the weight of the freight cars and their contents. 

On-Time Originations - Percent of scheduled road trains that depart the origin yard on-time or ahead of schedule.

On-Time Arrivals - Percent of scheduled road trains that arrive at the destination yard on-time to within two hours of scheduled arrival. 

FRA Personal Injury Frequency Index - Number of FRA-reportable injuries per 200,000 man-hours. 

FRA Train Accident Rate - Number of FRA-reportable train accidents per million train-miles.

The Company strives for continuous improvement in safety and service performance through training, innovation and investment. Investment in training and technology also is designed to allow the Company's employees to have an additional layer of protection that can detect and avoid many types of human factor incidents. Safety programs are designed to prevent incidents that can adversely impact employees, customers and communities. Continued capital investment in the Company's assets, including track, bridges, signals, equipment and detection technology also supports safety performance.

Operating performance continued to improve in 2019, as train velocity and car dwell achieved all-time record levels for the second consecutive year. The operational plan remains focused on delivering further service gains, improving transit times and driving asset utilization while controlling costs.

From a safety perspective, FRA personal injury index and train-accident rate improved 15% and 41% from the prior year, respectively. In 2019, the number of FRA reportable injuries and the number of train accidents were both all-time record lows. The Company is committed to continuous safety improvement and remains focused on reducing risk and enhancing the overall safety of its employees, customers and the communities in which the Company operates.

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 31

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Liquidity is a company’s ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet both current and future needs for obligations as they mature and to provide for planned capital expenditures, including those to address regulatory and legislative requirements. To have a complete picture of a company’s liquidity, its sources and uses of cash, balance sheet and external factors should be reviewed.

Significant Cash Flows

The following charts highlight the components of the change in cash and cash equivalents for operating, investing and financing activities for full years 2019, 2018 and 2017. 

In 2019, the Company generated $4.9 billion of cash provided by operating activities, which was $209 million higher than prior year primarily driven by favorable working capital activities and higher cash-generating income. In 2018, the Company generated $4.6 billion of cash provided by operating activities, which was $1.2 billion higher than the prior year primarily driven by higher cash-generating income which included the impact of a lower income tax rate, partially offset by lower working capital and other activities. 

In 2019, net cash used in investing activities was $2.1 billion, an increase in net spend of $418 million from the prior year primarily driven by an increase in net purchases of short-term investments. In 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion, an increase of $189 million from the prior year primarily driven by an increase in net short-term investment purchases, partially offset by lower property additions and higher proceeds from property dispositions. 

In 2019, net cash used in financing activities was $2.6 billion, which represents an increase in net spend of $148 million from the prior year primarily due to lower proceeds from debt issuances and higher debt repayments, partially offset by lower share repurchases. In 2018, net cash used in financing activities was $2.5 billion, which represents an increase of $321 million from the prior year primarily driven by higher share repurchases, partially offset by higher net debt issued.

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 32

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

Sources of Cash and Liquidity

The Company has multiple sources of liquidity, including cash generated from operations and financing sources. The Company filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC in February 2019 which is unlimited as to amount and may be used to issue debt or equity securities at CSX’s discretion, subject to market conditions and CSX Board authorization. While CSX seeks to give itself flexibility with respect to cash requirements, there can be no assurance that market conditions would permit CSX to sell such securities on acceptable terms at any given time, or at all. In 2019, CSX issued a total of $2.0 billion of new long-term debt. 

CSX has access to a $1.2 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility backed by a diverse syndicate of banks that expires in March 2024. As of December 31, 2019, the Company had no outstanding balances under this facility. See Note 10, Debt and Credit Agreements for more information. The Company also has a commercial paper program, backed by the revolving credit facility, under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion outstanding at any one time. At December 31, 2019, the Company had no outstanding debt under the commercial paper program.

Uses of Cash

CSX uses current cash balances for general corporate purposes, which may include working capital requirements, repayment of additional indebtedness outstanding from time to time, repurchases of CSX's common stock, capital investments, improvements in productivity and other cost reduction initiatives. 

In 2019, CSX continued to invest in its business to create long-term value for shareholders. The Company is committed to maintaining and improving its existing infrastructure and to positioning itself for long-term, profitable growth through optimizing network and terminal capacity. Funds used for property additions are further described below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Planned capital investments for 2020 are expected to be between $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion. Of the 2020 investment, the majority will be used to sustain the core infrastructure. The remaining amounts will be allocated to projects supporting service enhancements, productivity initiatives and profitable growth. CSX intends to fund capital investments through cash generated from operations.

The Company expects to continue incurring capital costs in connection with the implementation of PTC. CSX estimates that the total multi-year cost of PTC implementation will be approximately $2.4 billion. This estimate includes costs for installing the new system along tracks, upgrading locomotives, adding communication equipment and developing new technologies. Total PTC spending through 2019 was $2.3 billion. 

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 33

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

CSX is continually evaluating market and regulatory conditions that could affect the Company’s ability to generate sufficient returns on capital investments. CSX may revise its future estimates for capital spending as a result of changes in business conditions, tax legislation or the enactment of new laws or regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and financial performance in the future (see Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Form 10-K). 

The Company also uses cash for scheduled payments of debt and leases, share repurchases and to pay dividends to shareholders. On February 12, 2020, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an 8% increase in the quarterly cash dividend to $0.26 per common share. 

Material Changes in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Working Capital

CSX's balance sheet reflects its strong capital base and the impact of CSX's balanced approach in deploying capital for the benefit of its shareholders, which includes investments in infrastructure, dividend payments and share repurchases. Further, CSX is well positioned from a liquidity standpoint. The Company ended the year with $2.0 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. 

Total assets as well as total liabilities and shareholders' equity increased $1.5 billion from prior year. The increase in assets was primarily due to the net increase in short-term investments of $743 million, the right-of-use lease asset of $532 million resulting from the adoption of the new lease accounting standard, and property additions net of retirements of $295 million. The increase in total liabilities and shareholders' equity combined was driven by net earnings of $3.3 billion, the issuance of $2.0 billion in long-term debt and the total lease liability of $550 million resulting from the adoption of the new lease accounting standard. These increases were partially offset by share repurchases of $3.4 billion and dividends paid of $763 million.

Working capital is considered a measure of a company’s ability to meet its short-term needs. CSX had a working capital surplus of $1.1 billion at December 2019 and $650 million at December 2018. The increase in current assets was primarily driven by cash proceeds from the $2.0 billion issuance of long-term debt, partially offset by dividend payments of $763 million and the early redemption of long-term debt originally due October 2020 of $500 million. The increase in current assets was offset by an increase in current liabilities primarily due to the reclassification of $245 million from long-term debt to current maturities of long-term debt.

The Company’s working capital balance varies due to factors such as the timing of scheduled debt payments and changes in cash and cash equivalent balances as discussed above. Although the Company currently has a surplus, a working capital deficit is not unusual for CSX or other companies in the industry and does not indicate a lack of liquidity. The Company continues to maintain adequate current assets to satisfy current liabilities and maturing obligations when they come due. Furthermore, CSX has sufficient financial capacity, including its revolving credit facility, commercial paper program and shelf registration statement to manage its day-to-day cash requirements and any anticipated obligations. The Company from time to time accesses the credit markets for additional liquidity. 

Credit Ratings

Credit ratings reflect an independent agency’s judgment on the likelihood that a borrower will repay a debt obligation at maturity. The ratings reflect many considerations, such as the nature of the borrower’s industry and its competitive position, the size of the company, its liquidity and access to capital and the sensitivity of a company’s cash flows to changes in the economy. The two largest rating agencies, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) and Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”), use alphanumeric codes to designate their ratings. The highest quality rating for long-term credit obligations is AAA and Aaa for S&P and Moody’s, respectively. A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency.

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 34

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

The cost and availability of unsecured financing are materially affected by CSX's long-term credit ratings. CSX's credit ratings remained stable during 2019. As of December 2019 and December 2018, S&P's long-term rating on CSX was BBB+ (Stable), and Moody's was Baa1 (Stable). Ratings of BBB- and Baa3 or better by S&P and Moody’s, respectively, reflect ratings on debt obligations that fall within a band of credit quality considered to be investment grade. If CSX's credit ratings were to decline to below investment grade levels, the Company could experience significant increases in its interest cost for new debt. In addition, a decline in CSX’s credit ratings to below investment grade levels could adversely affect the market’s demand, and thus the Company’s ability to readily issue new debt.

CSX is committed to returning cash to shareholders and maintaining an investment grade credit profile. Capital structure, capital investments and cash distributions, including dividends and share repurchases, are reviewed at least annually by the Board of Directors.

SCHEDULE OF CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS

The following tables set forth maturities of the Company's contractual obligations and other significant commitments:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Other post-employment benefits include estimated other post-retirement medical and life insurance payments and payments under non-qualified pension plans which are unfunded. No amounts are included for funded pension obligations as no contributions are currently required.

(b) Agreements with Conrail represent minimum future payments of $138 million under the shared asset area agreements (see Note 15, Related Party Transactions). 

(c) Other commitments of $82 million consisted of surety bonds, letters of credit, uncertain tax positions and public private partnerships. Surety bonds of $36 million and letters of credit of $27 million arise from assurances issued by a third-party that CSX will fulfill certain obligations and are typically a contract, state, federal or court requirement. Uncertain tax positions of $13 million, which include interest and penalties, are all included in year 2020 as the year of settlement cannot be reasonably estimated. Contractual commitments related to public-private partnerships are $6 million.

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 35

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

For detailed information about the Company’s guarantees, operating leases and purchase obligations, see Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies. There are no off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

LABOR AGREEMENTS

Approximately 17,000 of the Company's nearly 21,000 employees are members of a labor union. In November 2019, notices were served to the 13 rail unions that participate in national bargaining to begin negotiations for benefits, wages and work rules for the next labor bargaining round for 2020. Current agreements remain in place until modified by these negotiations. Typically, such negotiations take several years before agreements are reached.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires that management make estimates in reporting the amounts of certain assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and certain revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from those estimates. These estimates and assumptions are discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a regular basis. Significant estimates using management judgment are made for the following areas:

•personal injury, environmental and legal reserves;

•pension and post-retirement medical plan accounting; and

•depreciation policies for assets under the group-life method.

Personal Injury, Environmental and Legal Reserves

Personal Injury

Personal Injury reserves of $129 million and $143 million for 2019 and 2018, respectively, represent liabilities for employee work-related and third-party injuries. CSXT retains an independent actuary to assist management in assessing the value of personal injury claims. The methodology used by the actuary includes a development factor to reflect growth or reduction in the value of these personal injury claims. It is based largely on CSXT's historical claims and settlement experience. Actual results may vary from estimates due to the number, type and severity of the injury, costs of medical treatments and uncertainties in litigation. For additional details, including a description of our related accounting policies, see Note 5, Casualty, Environmental and Other Reserves in the consolidated financial statements.

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 36

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

Critical Accounting Estimates, continued

Environmental

Environmental reserves were $74 million and $80 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company is a party to various proceedings related to environmental issues, including administrative and judicial proceedings involving private parties and regulatory agencies. The Company has been identified as a potentially responsible party at approximately 220 environmentally impaired sites. The Company reviews its potential liability with respect to each site identified, giving consideration to a number of factors such as:

•type of clean-up required;

•nature of the Company’s alleged connection to the location (e.g., generator of waste sent to the site or owner or operator of the site);

•extent of the Company’s alleged connection (e.g., volume of waste sent to the location and other relevant factors); and

•number, connection and financial viability of other named and unnamed potentially responsible parties at the location.

Conditions that are currently unknown could, at any given location, result in additional exposure, the amount and materiality of which cannot presently be reasonably estimated. For additional details, including a description of our related accounting policies, see Note 5, Casualty, Environmental and Other Reserves in the consolidated financial statements.

Legal

The Company is involved in litigation incidental to its business and is a party to a number of legal actions and claims, various governmental proceedings and private civil lawsuits. The Company evaluates all exposures relating to legal liabilities at least quarterly and adjusts reserves when appropriate. The amount of a particular reserve may be influenced by factors that include official rulings, newly discovered or developed evidence, or changes in laws, regulations and evidentiary standards. An unexpected adverse resolution of one or more of these items could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity in that particular period. For additional details, including a description of our related accounting policies, see Note 5, Casualty, Environmental and Other Reserves in the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings for further discussion of these items.

Pension and Post-retirement Medical Plan Accounting

The Company sponsors defined benefit pension plans principally for salaried, management personnel. For employees hired prior to 2003, the plans provide eligible employees with retirement benefits based predominantly on years of service and compensation rates near retirement. For employees hired in 2003 or thereafter, benefits are determined based on a cash balance formula, which provides benefits by utilizing interest and pay credits based upon age, service and compensation. Beginning in 2020, the CSX Pension Plan is closed to new participants. As of December 2019, the projected benefit obligation for the Company’s pension plans was $3.1 billion.

In addition to these plans, the Company sponsors a post-retirement medical plan and a non-contributory life insurance plan that provide certain benefits to full-time, salaried, management employees, hired prior to 2003, upon their retirement if certain eligibility requirements are met. Beginning in 2019, both the life insurance benefit for eligible active employees and health savings account contributions made by the Company to eligible retirees younger than 65 were eliminated. Beginning in 2020, the employer-funded health reimbursement arrangements for eligible retirees 65 years or older were eliminated. As a result of these plan amendments, the Company recognized a decrease in 2018 of $102 million in the post-retirement benefit liability. As of December 2019, the projected benefit obligation for the Company’s other post-retirement benefit plans was $117 million.

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 37

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

Critical Accounting Estimates, continued

For information related to the funded status of the Company's pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 9, Employee Benefit Plans.

The accounting for these plans is subject to the guidance provided in the Compensation-Retirement Benefits Topic in the ASC. This rule requires that management make certain assumptions relating to the following:

•discount rates used to measure future obligations and interest expense;

•long-term rate of return on plan assets;

•salary scale inflation rates; and

•other assumptions.

The Company engages independent actuaries to compute the amounts of liabilities and expenses relating to these plans subject to the assumptions that the Company determines are appropriate based on historical trends, current market rates and future projections. These amounts are reviewed by management.

Discount Rates

Discount rates affect the amount of liability recorded and the service and interest cost components of pension and post-retirement expense. Discount rates reflect the rates at which pension and other post-retirement benefits could be effectively settled, or in other words, how much it would cost the Company to buy enough high quality bonds to generate cash flow equal to the Company's expected future benefit payments. The Company determines the discount rate based on the market yield as of year-end for high quality corporate bonds whose maturities match the plans' expected benefit payments.

The Company measures the service and interest cost components of the net pension and post-retirement benefits expense by using individual spot rates matched with separate cash flows for each future year. Under the spot rate approach, individual spot discount rates along the same high quality corporate bonds yield curve used to measure the pension and post-retirement benefit liabilities are applied to the relevant projected cash flows at the relevant maturity. 

The weighted average discount rates used by the Company to value its 2019 pension and post-retirement obligations are 3.13 percent and 2.87 percent, respectively. For 2018, the weighted average discount rates used by the Company to value its pension and post-retirement obligations were 4.24 percent and 3.98 percent, respectively. Discount rates may differ for pension and post-retirement benefits due to varying duration of the liabilities for projected payments for each plan. As of December 2019, the estimated duration of pensions and post-retirement benefits is approximately 12 years and 7 years, respectively. 

Each year, these discount rates are reevaluated and adjusted using the current market interest rates for high quality corporate bonds to reflect the best estimate of the current effective settlement rates. In general, if interest rates decline or rise, the assumed discount rates will change.

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 38

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

Critical Accounting Estimates, continued

Long-term Rate of Return on Plan Assets

The expected long-term average rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected on the funds invested, or to be invested, to provide for benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. In estimating that rate, the Company gives appropriate consideration to the returns being earned by the plan assets in the funds and the rates of return expected to be available for reinvestment as well as the current and projected asset mix of the funds. Management balances market expectations obtained from various investment managers and economists with both market and actual plan historical returns to develop a reasonable estimate of the expected long-term rate of return on assets. As this assumption is long-term, the annual review may result in less frequent adjustment than other assumptions used in pension accounting. The long-term rate of return on plan assets used by the Company to value its benefit cost for the subsequent plan year was 6.75 percent in both 2019 and 2018.

Salary Scale Inflation Rates

Salary scale inflation rates are based on current trends and historical data accumulated by the Company. The Company reviews recent wage increases and management incentive compensation payments over the past five years in its assessment of salary scale inflation rates. The Company used a salary scale rate of 4.60 percent in both 2019 and 2018 to value its pension obligations.

Other Assumptions

The calculations made by the actuaries also include assumptions relating to health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, turnover and retirement age. These assumptions are based upon historical data, recent plan experience and industry trends and are determined by management.

2020 Estimated Pension and Post-retirement Expense

Net periodic pension and post-retirement benefits expenses for 2020 are expected to be a $5 million expense and a $2 million credit, respectively. Net periodic pension and post-retirement benefits expenses for 2020 are expected to include service cost expense of $40 million and $1 million, respectively. Service cost expense is included in labor and fringe on the consolidated income statement and all other components of net pension expense and post-retirement benefits expense are included in other income - net. Net periodic pension expense and post-retirement benefits expense in 2019 were credits of $7 million and $4 million, respectively. The net increase in the expected expense is primarily due to impacts from the decline in discount rates, partially offset by favorable pension asset experience.

The following sensitivity analysis illustrates the effects of a one percent change in certain assumptions like discount rates, long-term rate of return and salaries on the 2020 estimated pension and post-retirement expense:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 39

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

Critical Accounting Estimates, continued

Depreciation Policies for Assets Utilizing the Group-Life Method

The depreciable assets of the Company are depreciated using either the group-life or straight-line method of accounting, which are both acceptable depreciation methods in accordance with GAAP. The Company depreciates its railroad assets, including main-line track, locomotives and freight cars, using the group-life method of accounting. Assets depreciated under the group-life method comprise 87% of total fixed assets of $45 billion on a gross basis at December 31, 2019. The remaining depreciable assets of the Company, including non-railroad assets and assets under finance leases, are depreciated using the straight-line method on a per asset basis. Land is not depreciated. 

Management performs a review of depreciation expense and useful lives on a regular basis. Under the group-life method, the service lives and salvage values for each group of assets are determined by completing periodic depreciation studies and applying management’s methods to determine the service lives of its properties. There are several factors taken into account during the depreciation study and they include:

•statistical analysis of historical life and salvage data for each group of property;

•statistical analysis of historical retirements for each group of property;

•evaluation of current operations;

•evaluation of technological advances and maintenance schedules;

•previous assessment of the condition of the assets; 

•management's outlook on the future use of certain asset groups;

•expected net salvage to be received upon retirement; and

•comparison of assets to the same asset groups with other companies.

In 2019, the Company completed a depreciation study for its equipment assets which resulted in changes to accumulated depreciation, service lives, salvage values, and other related factors for certain assets. The effect of this change in estimate was not material to depreciation expense in 2019. The continued impacts of the study are expected to result in additional depreciation expense of approximately $30 million in 2020. There were no depreciation studies in 2018 or 2017. A one percent change in the average estimated useful life of all group-life assets would result in an approximate $12 million change to the Company’s annual depreciation expense. For additional details, including a more detailed description of our related accounting policies, see Note 6, Properties in the consolidated financial statements.

New Accounting Pronouncements and Changes in Accounting Policy

See Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies under the caption, “New Accounting Pronouncements and Changes in Accounting Policy.”

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 40

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements in this report and in other materials filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made by the Company, are forward-looking statements. The Company intends for all such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and the provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act may contain, among others, statements regarding: 

•projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, margins, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, taxes or other financial items;

•expectations as to results of operations and operational initiatives;

•expectations as to the effect of claims, lawsuits, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity;

•management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, capital expenditures, workforce levels, dividends, share repurchases, safety and service performance, proposed new services and other matters that are not historical facts, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; and

•future economic, industry or market conditions or performance and their effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "will," "should," “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “estimate,” “preliminary” and similar expressions. The Company cautions against placing undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect its good faith beliefs with respect to future events and are based on information currently available to it as of the date the forward-looking statement is made. Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the timing when, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved.

Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and actual performance or results could differ materially from those anticipated by any forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements. 

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 41

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

The following important factors, in addition to those discussed in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements: 

•legislative, regulatory or legal developments involving transportation, including rail or intermodal transportation, the environment, hazardous materials, taxation, international trade and initiatives to further regulate the rail industry;

•the outcome of litigation, claims and other contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, those related to fuel surcharge, environmental matters, taxes, shipper and rate claims subject to adjudication, personal injuries and occupational illnesses;

•changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation, as well as the impact of international trade agreements and tariffs) and the level of demand for products carried by CSXT;

•natural events such as severe weather conditions, including floods, fire, hurricanes and earthquakes, a pandemic crisis affecting the health of the Company's employees, its shippers or the consumers of goods, or other unforeseen disruptions of the Company's operations, systems, property, equipment or supply chain;

•competition from other modes of freight transportation, such as trucking, and competition and consolidation or financial distress within the transportation industry generally; 

•the cost of compliance with laws and regulations that differ from expectations (including those associated with PTC implementation) as well as costs, penalties and operational and liquidity impacts associated with noncompliance with applicable laws or regulations;

•the impact of increased passenger activities in capacity-constrained areas, including potential effects of high speed rail initiatives, or regulatory changes affecting when CSXT can transport freight or service routes;

•unanticipated conditions in the financial markets that may affect timely access to capital markets and the cost of capital, as well as management's decisions regarding share repurchases; 

•changes in fuel prices, surcharges for fuel and the availability of fuel;

•the impact of natural gas prices on coal-fired electricity generation;

•the impact of global supply and price of seaborne coal on CSX's export coal market;

•availability of insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or insufficient insurance coverage to cover claims or damages;

•the inherent business risks associated with safety and security, including the transportation of hazardous materials or a cybersecurity attack which would threaten the availability and vulnerability of information technology;

•adverse economic or operational effects from actual or threatened war or terrorist activities and any governmental response;

CSX 2019 Form 10-K p. 42

CSX CORPORATION

PART II

•loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees;

•labor and benefit costs and labor difficulties, including stoppages affecting either the Company's operations or customers' ability to deliver goods to the Company for shipment;

•the Company's success in implementing its strategic, financial and operational initiatives; 

•the impact of conditions in the real estate market on the Company's ability to sell assets;

•changes in operating conditions and costs or commodity concentrations; and

•the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting economic and business conditions.

Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified elsewhere in this report and in CSX's other SEC reports, which are accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and the Company's website at www.csx.com. The information on the CSX website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk