ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We have market risk exposure related to fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Market risk is the potential negative impact of adverse changes in these prices or rates on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In an effort to manage our exposure to these risks, we may enter into derivative contracts and may adjust our derivative portfolio as market conditions change. We expect adjustments to the fair value of financial instruments to result in ongoing volatility in earnings and stockholders' equity.

The following sensitivity analyses do not consider the effects of a change in demand for air travel, the economy as a whole or actions we may take to seek to mitigate our exposure to a particular risk. For these and other reasons, the actual results of changes in these prices or rates may differ materially from the following hypothetical results.

Fuel Price Risk

Changes in fuel prices materially impact our results of operations. A one cent increase in the cost of jet fuel would result in approximately $40 million of additional annual fuel expense. Our derivative contracts to hedge the financial risk from changing fuel prices are primarily related to Monroe’s inventory. 

Interest Rate Risk

Our exposure to market risk from adverse changes in interest rates is primarily associated with our debt obligations. Market risk associated with our fixed and variable rate debt relates to the potential reduction in fair value and negative impact to future earnings, respectively, from an increase in interest rates. 

At December 31, 2019, we had $7.6 billion of fixed-rate debt and $2.9 billion of variable-rate debt. An increase of 100 basis points in average annual interest rates would have decreased the estimated fair value of our fixed-rate debt by $300 million at December 31, 2019 and would have increased the annual interest expense on our variable-rate debt by $29 million.

The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced in July 2017 that it intends to no longer compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of the London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR") after 2021. To mitigate the possible impact, various regulators have proposed alternative reference rates. The effect of any discontinuation or replacement of LIBOR cannot be predicted at this time, but we believe our risk would be limited to variable rate debt and variable rate finance leases which utilize this rate. At December 31, 2019 we have approximately $2.1 billion of variable rate finance leases and variable rate debt maturing after 2021, that include provisions to update the applicable reference rate which are not expected to be materially different from LIBOR.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk because we have revenue, expense and equity investments denominated in foreign currencies. To manage exchange rate risk, we execute both our international revenue and expense transactions in the same foreign currency to the extent practicable. From time to time, we may also enter into foreign currency option and forward contracts. 

At December 31, 2019, we had open a U.S. dollar-Euro cross currency swap contract totaling a $9 million asset position. We estimate that a 10% depreciation or appreciation in the price of the Euro in relation to the U.S. dollar would have changed the projected cash settlement value of our open hedge contract by $45 million for the year ending December 31, 2019. At December 31, 2019, we had open a U.S. dollar-South Korean won cross currency swap contract totaling a $3 million liability position. We estimate that a 10% depreciation or appreciation in the price of the South Korean won in relation to the U.S. dollar would have changed the projected cash settlement value of our open hedge contract by $16 million for the year ending December 31, 2019.

48

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA