ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is designed to provide a reader of Danaher’s financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of Company management. The Company’s MD&A is divided into five sections:

•Overview

•Results of Operations

•Liquidity and Capital Resources

•Critical Accounting Estimates

•New Accounting Standards

This discussion and analysis should be read along with Danaher’s audited financial statements and related Notes thereto as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019 included in this Annual Report. 

Unless otherwise indicated, all financial results in this report refer to continuing operations.

OVERVIEW

General

Refer to “Item 1. Business—General” for a discussion of Danaher’s strategic objectives and methodologies for delivering long-term shareholder value. Danaher is a multinational business with global operations. During 2019, approximately 63% of Danaher’s sales were derived from customers outside the United States. As a diversified, global business, Danaher’s operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic and political factors. Danaher’s geographic and industry diversity, as well as the range of its products, software and services, help limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on its consolidated operating results. The Company’s individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future.

As a result of the Company’s geographic and industry diversity, the Company faces a variety of opportunities and challenges, including rapid technological development (particularly with respect to computing, automation, artificial intelligence, mobile connectivity, communications and digitization) in most of the Company’s served markets, the expansion and evolution of opportunities in high-growth markets, trends and costs associated with a global labor force, consolidation of the Company’s competitors and increasing regulation. The Company operates in a highly competitive business environment in most markets, and the Company’s long-term growth and profitability will depend in particular on its ability to expand its business in high-growth geographies and high-growth market segments, identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions, develop innovative and differentiated new products and services with higher gross profit margins, expand and improve the effectiveness of the Company’s sales force, continue to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency and quality, and effectively address the demands of an increasingly regulated global environment. The Company is making significant investments, organically and through acquisitions, to address the rapid pace of technological change in its served markets and to globalize its manufacturing, research and development and customer-facing resources (particularly in high-growth markets) in order to be responsive to the Company’s customers throughout the world and improve the efficiency of the Company’s operations.

Business Performance

Consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2019 increased 5.0% as compared to 2018. While differences exist among the Company’s businesses, on an overall basis, demand for the Company’s products and services increased on a year-over-year basis in 2019 as compared to 2018. This demand, together with the Company’s continued investments in sales growth initiatives and the other business-specific factors discussed below, contributed to year-over-year core sales growth of 6.0% (for the definition of “core sales,” refer to “—Results of Operations” below). Geographically, both high-growth and developed markets contributed to year-over-year core sales growth during 2019. Core sales in high-growth markets grew at a high-single digit rate in 2019 as compared to 2018 led by strength in China. High-growth markets represented approximately 32% of the Company’s total sales in 2019. Core sales in developed markets grew at a mid-single digit rate in 2019 as compared to 2018 and were driven by North America and Western Europe. 

The Company’s net earnings from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 totaled approximately $2.4 billion, or $3.26 per diluted share, compared to approximately $2.4 billion, or $3.39 per diluted share for the year ended 

34
December 31, 2018. Net earnings attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2019 totaled approximately $2.9 billion or $4.05 per diluted share compared to approximately $2.7 billion or $3.74 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2018. The gain on the disposition of Envista, partially offset by the tax-related charges discussed below in “—Results of Operations—Income Taxes” are the primary reasons for the year-over-year increase in net earnings attributable to common stockholders and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2019; refer to “—Results of Operations” for further discussion of year-over-year changes in net earnings and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2019. Refer to “Results of Operations—Discontinued Operations” for further discussion of the disposition of Envista.

Acquisitions and Dispositions

On February 25, 2019, the Company entered into the GE Biopharma Purchase Agreement with GE to acquire the GE Biopharma Business for a cash purchase price of approximately $21.0 billion, subject to certain adjustments, and the assumption of approximately $0.4 billion of pension liabilities. The GE Biopharma Business, to be known as Cytiva following the closing of the acquisition, is a leading provider of instruments, consumables and software that support the research, discovery, process development and manufacturing workflows of biopharmaceutical drugs. Based on preliminary unaudited financial information provided by GE, the GE Biopharma Business generated revenues of approximately $3.3 billion in 2019. Though the timing of obtaining the final regulatory approvals necessary to close the GE Biopharma Acquisition is uncertain, the Company continues to make progress with respect thereto and expects to close the transaction in the first quarter of 2020. The acquisition is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Company’s Life Sciences segment by expanding the business’ geographic and product line diversity, including new product and service offerings that complement the Company’s current biologics workflow solutions. As a condition to obtaining certain regulatory approvals for the closing of the transaction, the Company expects it will be required to divest certain of its existing product lines that in the aggregate generated revenues of approximately $170 million in 2019. 

The Company plans to finance the GE Biopharma Acquisition with approximately $3.0 billion of proceeds from the March 1, 2019 underwritten public offerings of its Common Stock and MCPS, approximately $10.8 billion of proceeds from the issuance of euro-denominated and U.S. dollar-denominated long-term debt in the second half of 2019, and approximately $7.2 billion from the aggregate of cash on hand and proceeds from commercial paper borrowings. Refer to Note 11 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the issuance of debt and to Note 19 for additional information related to the March 1, 2019 public offerings. 

During 2019, the Company acquired five businesses for total consideration of $331 million in cash, net of cash acquired. The businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company’s three segments. The aggregate annual sales of these five businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company’s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were $72 million. In addition, in 2019 the Company invested $241 million in non-marketable equity securities and a partnership.

For a discussion of the Company’s 2018 and 2017 acquisition and disposition activity, refer to “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Investing Activities”.

Envista Disposition

On September 20, 2019, Envista completed an underwritten IPO of 30.8 million shares of its common stock, (the “IPO”), which represented 19.4% of Envista’s outstanding shares at the time of the offering, at a public offering price of $22.00 per share. Envista realized net proceeds of $643 million from the IPO, after deducting underwriting discounts and deal expenses. 

In connection with the completion of the IPO, through a series of equity and other transactions, the Company transferred its dental businesses to Envista (the “Separation”). In exchange, Envista transferred consideration of approximately $2.0 billion to the Company, which consisted primarily of the net proceeds from the IPO and approximately $1.3 billion of proceeds from Envista’s term debt financing. The excess of the net proceeds from the IPO over the net book value of the business transferred to Envista was $60 million and was recorded in additional paid-in capital. 

On December 18, 2019, Danaher completed the disposition of its remaining 80.6% ownership of Envista common stock through a split-off exchange offer, which resulted in Danaher’s repurchase of 22.9 million shares of Danaher common stock in exchange for the remaining shares of Envista common stock held by Danaher (the “Split-Off”). The IPO, Separation and Split-Off are collectively referred to as the “Envista Disposition”. As a result, the Company recognized a gain on the disposition of $451 million in the fourth quarter of 2019 equal to the difference between the fair value of the Danaher common stock tendered in the exchange offer and the carrying value of Envista common stock. The accounting requirements for reporting Envista as a discontinued operation were met when the Split-Off was completed. Accordingly, the Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods presented reflect this business as a discontinued operation. For each period presented, the Company allocated a portion of the consolidated interest expense to discontinued operations based on the ratio of the discontinued business’ net assets to the 

35
Company’s consolidated net assets. Envista had revenues of approximately $2.6 billion in 2019 prior to the Envista Disposition and approximately $2.8 billion in 2018. 

To effect the Envista Disposition, the Company incurred $69 million in costs during the year ended December 31, 2019 which are reflected in earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. These costs primarily relate to professional fees associated with preparation of regulatory filings and activities within finance, tax, legal and information technology functions as well as certain investment banking fees and tax costs. 

Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

UK’s referendum decision to exit the EU 

In a referendum on June 23, 2016, voters approved for the UK to exit the EU. The UK formally withdrew from the EU on January 31, 2020 with a transition period through December 31, 2020. During the transition period, the UK will continue to follow EU law and will negotiate with the EU on the terms of its relationship post-2020. Failure to complete negotiations by the implementation deadline of December 31, 2020 relating to Brexit could result in the UK reverting to undesirable and adverse trade agreements with the EU. The nature of the UK’s future relationship with the EU is still uncertain. The Company continues to monitor the status of Brexit and plan for potential impacts. As of December 31, 2019, the Company had seven manufacturing facilities in the UK and the Company’s net investment in plant, property and equipment in the UK was $163 million. For the year ended December 31, 2019, less than 5% of the Company’s sales were derived from customers located in the UK, however, the impact of Brexit could also impact the Company’s sales and operations outside the UK. To mitigate the potential impact of Brexit on the import of goods to the UK, the Company has increased its level of inventory within the UK. The ultimate impact of Brexit on the Company’s financial results is uncertain. For additional information, refer to the “Item 1A—Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report. 

Coronavirus

For information on the potential impact of the coronavirus to the Company’s operations, refer to the “Item 1A—Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

In this report, references to the non-GAAP measure of core sales (also referred to as core revenues or sales/revenues from existing businesses) refer to sales from continuing operations calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) but excluding:

•sales from acquired businesses; and

•the impact of currency translation.

References to sales or operating profit attributable to acquisitions or acquired businesses refer to sales or operating profit, as applicable, from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition less the amount of sales and operating profit, as applicable, attributable to divested product lines not considered discontinued operations. The portion of revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between:

•the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses); and

•the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses) after applying current period foreign exchange rates to the prior year period.

Core sales growth should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, sales, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Management believes that reporting the non-GAAP financial measure of core sales growth provides useful information to investors by helping identify underlying growth trends in Danaher’s business and facilitating comparisons of Danaher’s revenue performance with its performance in prior and future periods and to Danaher’s peers. Management also uses core sales growth to measure the Company’s operating and financial performance, and uses it as one of the performance measures in the Company’s executive short-term cash incentive program. The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from core sales because currency translation is not under management’s control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends, and excludes the effect of acquisitions and divestiture-related items because the nature, size, timing and number of acquisitions and divestitures can vary dramatically from period-to-period and between the Company and its peers and can also obscure underlying business trends and make comparisons of long-term performance difficult.

Throughout this discussion, references to sales volume refer to the impact of both price and unit sales and references to productivity improvements generally refer to improved cost efficiencies resulting from the ongoing application of DBS.

36
Core Revenue  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Core sales grew on a year-over-year basis in both 2019 and 2018. Sales from acquired businesses increased on a year-over-year basis in both 2019 and 2018, primarily due to the acquisition of IDT in the second quarter of 2018. The impact of currency translation reduced reported sales on a year-over-year basis in 2019 as the U.S. dollar was, on average, stronger against other major currencies. Currency translation increased reported sales on a year-over-year basis in 2018, primarily due to the U.S. dollar weakening against other major currencies in the first half of 2018, partially offset by the U.S. dollar strengthening in the second half of 2018. 

Operating profit margins were 18.3% for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to 17.9% in 2018. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2019 vs. 2018 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 vs. 2018 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Transaction costs and integration preparation costs related to the anticipated acquisition of the GE Biopharma Business - 50 basis points

•Second quarter 2018 gain on resolution of acquisition-related matters - 5 basis points

Operating profit margins were 17.9% for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to 16.6% in 2017. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Restructuring, impairment and other related charges related to discontinuing a product line in the second quarter of 2017 related to the Diagnostic segment - 45 basis points

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:

•The incremental net dilutive effect in 2018 of acquired businesses - 25 basis points

•Acquisition-related transaction costs and fair value adjustments to inventory related to the acquisition of IDT in the second quarter of 2018 - 10 basis points

37
Business Segments

Sales by business segment for the years ended December 31 are as follows ($ in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

LIFE SCIENCES

The Company’s Life Sciences segment offers a broad range of research tools that scientists use to study the basic building blocks of life, including genes, proteins, metabolites and cells, in order to understand the causes of disease, identify new therapies and test new drugs and vaccines. The segment is also a leading provider of filtration, separation and purification technologies to the biopharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical, aerospace, microelectronics and general industrial sectors. 

Life Sciences Selected Financial Data 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Core Revenue 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 Compared to 2018 

Price increases in the segment contributed 1.0% to revenue growth on a year-over-year basis during 2019 as compared with 2018 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth. 

Core sales for filtration, separation and purification technologies increased across most major geographies on a year-over-year basis led by growth in the biopharmaceuticals, aerospace and fluid technology and asset protection end-markets, partially offset by softness in the microelectronics end-market. Core sales of microscopy products grew on a year-over-year basis across most major product lines led by North America and the high-growth markets, particularly China. Year-over-year core sales for flow cytometry and particle counting products grew in 2019 across all major geographies and end-markets. Core sales of the business’ broad range of mass spectrometers increased on a year-over-year basis led by strong core sales growth in the high-growth markets, particularly China and the rest of Asia, partially offset by lower demand in North America. This growth was led by demand in the pharmaceutical and academic end-markets and for service offerings, partially offset by lower core sales in the clinical end-market. 

Sales growth from acquisitions was primarily due to the acquisition of IDT in April 2018. IDT provides additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the segment by expanding the segment’s product line diversity, including new product and 

38
service offerings in the area of genomics consumables. During 2019, IDT’s revenues grew on a year-over-year basis across all major product lines and geographies, primarily driven by North America.

Operating profit margins increased 120 basis points during 2019 as compared to 2018. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2019 vs. 2018 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 vs. 2018 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:

•The incremental net dilutive effect in 2019 of acquired businesses - 35 basis points

•Second quarter 2018 gain on resolution of acquisition-related matters - 15 basis points

2018 Compared to 2017

Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to revenue growth on a year-over-year basis during 2018 as compared with 2017 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth. 

Core sales of the business’ broad range of mass spectrometers grew on a year-over-year basis led by strong sales growth in high-growth markets, particularly China and the rest of Asia, and in North America. This growth was led by demand in the clinical, applied and pharmaceutical end-markets and by demand for service offerings. Core sales of microscopy products grew on a year-over-year basis with growth in demand across most major end-markets partially driven by recent new product releases. Geographically, demand for microscopy products increased in North America and high-growth markets, particularly China. Year-over-year core sales for the business’ flow cytometry and particle counting products grew in 2018 across most major end-markets, led by increases in sales in North America, China and Western Europe. New product launches in 2018 also contributed to the increased demand in these markets. Core sales for filtration, separation and purification technologies grew on a year-over-year basis led by growth in biopharmaceuticals, microelectronics and fluid technology and asset protection end-markets. Geographically, core sales in filtration, separation and purification technologies were led by growth in Western Europe, North America and high-growth markets.

Sales growth from acquisitions was primarily due to the acquisition of IDT in April 2018. During 2018, IDT’s revenues grew on a year-over-year basis across all major geographies and product lines.

Operating profit margins increased 140 basis points during 2018 as compared to 2017. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•2018 gain on resolution of acquisition-related matters - 20 basis points

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

39
DIAGNOSTICS

The Company’s Diagnostics segment offers analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physicians’ offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions. 

Diagnostics Selected Financial Data

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Core Revenue 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 Compared to 2018 

Price increases in the segment did not have a significant impact on sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2019 as compared with 2018. 

Geographically, core sales in the clinical lab business increased on a year-over-year basis due to continued demand in high-growth markets, led by China, and in North America, partially offset by modest declines in Western Europe. The increased demand in the clinical lab business was mainly driven by the immunoassay, chemistry and automation product lines. Core sales in the molecular diagnostics business increased on a year-over-year basis in most major product lines and across all major geographies. Year-over-year core sales growth in the acute care diagnostic business was driven by continued strong sales of blood gas and immunoassay product lines, primarily in China, Western Europe, Japan and North America. Increased demand for advanced staining and core histology product lines drove the majority of the year-over-year core sales growth in the pathology diagnostics business. Geographically, core revenue growth in the pathology diagnostics business was led by North America, Western Europe and China.

Operating profit margins increased 10 basis points during 2019 as compared to 2018, due to higher 2019 core sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the continued productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2019 and 2018, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various new product development and sales, service and marketing growth investments and the impact of foreign exchange rates. 

Depreciation and amortization as a percentage of sales decreased during 2019 as compared with 2018 largely due to the impact of increased sales in 2019.

2018 Compared to 2017

Price in the segment negatively impacted sales growth by 0.5% on a year-over-year basis during 2018 as compared with 2017 and is reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth.

Core sales in the molecular diagnostics business increased on a year-over-year basis, driven by strong growth in both developed and high-growth markets. The molecular diagnostics business experienced particularly strong growth in the infectious disease product line driven in part by the severity of the flu season during the first quarter of 2018. Core sales in the clinical lab business increased on a year-over-year basis due to increased demand in the high-growth markets, led by China, partially offset 

40
by lower sales in Western Europe. The increased demand in the clinical lab business was driven by the immunoassay product line. Core sales in the acute care diagnostic business increased, driven by continued strong sales of blood gas and immunoassay product lines across most major geographies, led by the high-growth markets. Core sales in the pathology diagnostics business increased across most major geographies, led by North America, Western Europe and China. Demand for new products in the advanced staining and core histology product lines drove the increased core sales in the pathology diagnostics business.

Operating profit margins increased 230 basis points during 2018 as compared to 2017. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:

•2017 gain on resolution of acquisition-related matters - 25 basis points

ENVIRONMENTAL & APPLIED SOLUTIONS

The Company’s Environmental & Applied Solutions segment offers products and services that help protect important resources and keep global food and water supplies safe. The Company’s water quality business provides instrumentation, consumables, software, services and disinfection systems to help analyze, treat and manage the quality of ultra-pure, potable, industrial, waste, ground, source and ocean water in residential, commercial, municipal, industrial and natural resource applications. The Company’s product identification business provides equipment, software, services and consumables for various color and appearance management, packaging design and quality management, packaging converting, printing, marking, coding and traceability applications for consumer, pharmaceutical and industrial products.

Environmental & Applied Solutions Selected Financial Data 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Core Revenue 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

41
2019 Compared to 2018 

Price increases in the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2019 as compared with 2018 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth.

Core sales in the segment’s water quality businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2019 as compared with 2018. Year-over-year core sales in the analytical instrumentation product line increased, driven by demand in North America, Western Europe, and high-growth markets, partially offset by lower core sales in China primarily as a result of strong regulatory driven demand in the prior year. Year-over-year core revenue growth in the business’ chemical treatment solutions product line was driven by demand in the oil and gas, primary metals, food and beverage, and commercial and industrial end-markets. Geographically, year-over-year core revenue growth in the chemical treatment solutions product line was driven by North America and Latin America. Core sales in the business’ ultraviolet water disinfection product line increased across all major end-markets on a year-over-year basis, driven by the completion of several municipal projects. Geographically, year-over year core revenue growth for ultraviolet water disinfection products was led by North America and China. 

Core sales in the segment’s product identification businesses grew at a low-single digit rate during 2019 as compared with 2018. Year-over-year core revenue growth for marking and coding equipment and related consumables was driven by demand in North America, Western Europe and high-growth markets. Core sales for the business’ packaging and color solutions increased year-over-year, driven by increased demand in North America, Western Europe and high-growth markets.

Operating profit margins increased 100 basis points during 2019 as compared to 2018. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons:

2019 vs. 2018 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 vs. 2018 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 Compared to 2017

Price increases in the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2018 as compared with 2017 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth.

Core sales in the segment’s water quality businesses grew at a high-single digit rate during 2018 as compared with 2017. Year-over-year core sales in the analytical instrumentation product line increased, led by continued demand in the industrial and municipal end-markets. Geographically, year-over-year core revenue growth in the analytical instrumentation product line was driven by increased demand across all major geographies, led by China, North America and Western Europe. Year-over-year core revenue growth in the business’ chemical treatment solutions product line was driven by demand in the commercial and industrial, mining and primary metals end-markets. Geographically, year-over-year core revenue growth in the chemical treatment solutions product line was driven by North America and Latin America. Core sales in the business’ ultraviolet water disinfection product line grew on a year-over-year basis due primarily to demand in the municipal and consumer end-markets. Geographically, year-over year core revenue growth in the ultraviolet water disinfection product line was led by North America and China, partially offset by softer demand in Western Europe. 

Core sales in the segment’s product identification businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2018 as compared with 2017. Year-over-year core revenue growth for marking and coding equipment and related consumables was driven by demand across all major end-markets and in all major geographies, particularly Western Europe, North America and high-growth markets. Demand for the business’ packaging and color solutions decreased slightly year-over-year. Geographically, core sales for packaging and color solutions decreased in North America and high-growth markets, partially offset by increased demand in Western Europe.

Operating profit margins declined 10 basis points during 2018 as compared to 2017. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons:

42
2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

COST OF SALES AND GROSS PROFIT

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The year-over-year increase in cost of sales during 2019 as compared with 2018 was due primarily to the impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, including sales from recently acquired businesses, product mix, and higher freight and tariff costs, partially offset by increased leverage of certain manufacturing costs and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the continued productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2019 and 2018. 

The year-over-year increase in cost of sales during 2018 as compared with 2017, was due primarily to the impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, including sales from recently acquired businesses, partially offset by incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the continued productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2018 and 2017 and charges associated with the Company’s strategic decision to discontinue a product line in its Diagnostics segment in 2017. Cost of goods sold also increased in 2018 as a result of higher tariffs.

The slight year-over-year decrease in gross profit margins during 2019 as compared with 2018 was due primarily to the impact of product mix and higher freight and tariff costs, partially offset by the impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, including sales from recently acquired businesses, increased leverage of certain manufacturing costs and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the continued productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2019 and 2018. 

The year-over-year increase in gross profit margins during 2018 as compared with 2017 was due primarily to the favorable impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, including sales from recently acquired businesses, increased leverage of certain manufacturing costs and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the continued productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2018 and 2017. Gross margin improvements were partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange rates in 2018.

OPERATING EXPENSES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales declined 40 basis points on a year-over-year basis for 2019 compared with 2018. The decline was driven by increased leverage of the Company’s general and administrative cost base resulting from higher 2019 sales volumes and continuing productivity improvements taken in 2019 and 2018, partially offset by continued investments in sales and marketing growth initiatives and transaction costs and integration preparation costs associated with the anticipated GE Biopharma Acquisition, which increased SG&A as a percentage of sales by approximately 50 basis points during 2019. 

43
SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales declined 90 basis points on a year-over-year basis for 2018 compared with 2017. The decline was driven by increased leverage of the Company’s general and administrative cost base resulting from higher 2018 sales volumes, continuing productivity improvements taken in 2018 and 2017, and the impact of the restructuring, impairment and other related charges incurred in 2017 associated with the Company’s strategic decision to discontinue a product line in its Diagnostics segment. The decline in SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales was partially offset by higher relative spending levels at recently acquired companies and continued investments in sales and marketing growth initiatives. 

R&D expenses (consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs) as a percentage of sales increased slightly in 2019 as compared with 2018, as year-over-year increases in the Company’s investments in new product development initiatives approximated the year-over-year increase in sales. R&D expenses as a percentage of sales were flat in 2018 as compared to 2017. 

NONOPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) 

As described in Note 1 and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in the first quarter of 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) ASU No. 2017-07, Compensation— Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost. The ASU requires the Company to disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of net periodic benefit costs and requires the Company to present the other components of net periodic benefit cost in other income, net. The ASU required application on a retrospective basis. The other components of net periodic benefit costs included in other income, net for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 were net gains of $12 million, $35 million and $31 million, respectively. The Company’s net periodic pension cost for the year-ended December 31, 2019 includes a settlement loss of $7 million pre-tax ($6 million after-tax, or $0.01 per diluted share) as a result of the transfer of a portion of its non-U.S. pension liabilities related to one defined benefit plan to a third party. 

During 2017, the Company received $138 million of cash proceeds and recorded $22 million in short-term other receivables from the sale of certain marketable equity securities during 2017. The Company recorded a pretax gain related to this sale of $73 million ($46 million after-tax or $0.06 per diluted share).

LOSS ON EARLY EXTINGUISHMENT OF BORROWINGS

In the fourth quarter of 2019, the Company redeemed the $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.4% senior unsecured notes due 2020 and the $375 million aggregate principal amount of 5.0% senior unsecured notes due 2020. The Company recorded a loss on extinguishment of these borrowings, net of certain deferred gains, of $7 million ($5 million after-tax or $0.01 per diluted share). The Company funded the redemption using a portion of the cash distribution it received in connection with the Envista Disposition.

INTEREST COSTS

Interest expense of $109 million for 2019 was $28 million lower than in 2018, due primarily to the impact of the Company’s cross-currency swap derivative contracts and the repayment of certain outstanding borrowings in 2019, partially offset by interest expense from 2019 debt issuances. For a further description of the Company’s debt as of December 31, 2019 refer to Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest expense of $137 million in 2018 was $3 million lower than the 2017 interest expense of $140 million due primarily to the decrease in interest costs as a result of the repayment of certain outstanding borrowings in the third quarter of 2018 and the second and fourth quarters of 2017, lower average outstanding U.S. commercial paper borrowings during 2018 compared to 2017, and the impact of foreign exchange rates in 2018 as compared to 2017, partially offset by the cost of additional non-U.S. debt issued during 2017.

In January 2019, the Company entered into approximately $1.9 billion of cross-currency swap derivative contracts on its U.S. dollar-denominated bonds to effectively convert the Company’s U.S. dollar-denominated bonds to obligations denominated in Danish kroner, Japanese yen, euro and Swiss franc and reduce the interest rate from the stated interest rates on the U.S. dollar-denominated debt to the interest rates of the swaps. As of December 31, 2019, approximately $1.0 billion of the cross-currency swap derivative contracts remained outstanding. 

44
The Company used interest rate swap agreements to hedge the variability in cash flows due to changes in benchmark interest rates related to a portion of the U.S. debt the Company issued to fund the GE Biopharma Acquisition. The interest rate swap agreements are agreements in which the Company agrees to pay a fixed interest rate based on the rate specified in the agreement in exchange for receiving a floating interest rate from a third-party bank based upon a specified benchmark interest rate. In June 2019, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $850 million. These contracts, which were settled in November 2019, effectively fixed the interest rate for a portion of the Company’s U.S. dollar-denominated debt issued in November 2019 equal to the notional amount of the swaps to the rate specified in the interest rate swap agreements. The changes in the fair value of these instruments resulting from the changes in interest rates were recorded as a loss of $38 million in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity prior to the issuance of the debt and are subsequently being reclassified to interest expense over the life of the related debt. 

INCOME TAXES

General

Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect management’s assessment of future taxes expected to be paid on items reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company records the tax effect of discrete items and items that are reported net of their tax effects in the period in which they occur.

The Company’s effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period-to-period changes in such accruals, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns (as further discussed below), the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies, tax rulings, court decisions, settlements with tax authorities and changes in tax laws and regulations, such as the TCJA and legislative policy changes that may result from the OECD’s initiative on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. For a description of the tax treatment of earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, refer to “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Cash and Cash Requirements” below.

The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis. Based on these reviews, the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities, tax rulings and court decisions and the expiration of statutes of limitations, reserves for contingent tax liabilities are accrued or adjusted as necessary. For a discussion of risks related to these and other tax matters, refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors”.

On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was enacted, substantially changing the U.S. tax system. Under the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB No. 118”) guidance, for the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company recorded provisional amounts in earnings for the enactment of the TCJA and during 2018, the Company completed its accounting for the TCJA based on the Company’s interpretation of the new tax regulations and related guidance issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the IRS. 

The TCJA imposes tax on U.S. shareholders for global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. The Company has elected the period cost method for its accounting for GILTI. 

Due to the complexity and recent issuance of these tax regulations, management’s interpretations of the impact of these rules could be subject to challenge by the taxing authorities.

Year-Over-Year Changes in the Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2019, 2018 and 2017 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rates of 21.0% in 2019 and 2018 and 35.0% in 2017, due principally to the Company’s earnings outside the United States that are indefinitely reinvested and taxed at rates different than the U.S. federal statutory rate. In addition: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

45
allowances associated with certain foreign tax credits, tax benefits resulting from changes in tax law and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company conducts business globally, and files numerous consolidated and separate income tax returns in the U.S. federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. The non-U.S. countries in which the Company has a significant presence include China, Denmark, Germany, Singapore, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. The Company believes that a change in the statutory tax rate of any individual foreign country would not have a material effect on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements given the geographic dispersion of the Company’s taxable income. 

The Company and its subsidiaries are routinely examined by various domestic and international taxing authorities. The IRS has completed substantially all of the examinations of the Company’s federal income tax returns through 2011 and is currently examining certain of the Company’s federal income tax returns for 2012 through 2017. In addition, the Company has subsidiaries in Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and various other countries, states and provinces that are currently under audit for years ranging from 2004 through 2018. 

In the fourth quarter of 2018 and the first quarter of 2019, the IRS proposed significant adjustments to the Company’s taxable income for the years 2012 through 2015 with respect to the deferral of tax on certain premium income related to the Company’s self-insurance programs. For income tax purposes, the recognition of premium income has been deferred in accordance with U.S. tax laws related to insurance. The IRS is challenging the deferral of premiums for certain types of the Company’s self-insurance policies. The proposed adjustments would increase the Company’s taxable income over the 2012 through 2015 period by approximately $2.7 billion. Management believes the positions the Company has taken in its U.S. tax returns are in accordance with the relevant tax laws and intends to vigorously defend these positions. Due to the enactment of the TCJA in 2017 and the resulting reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate for years after 2017, the Company revalued its deferred tax liabilities related to the temporary differences associated with this deferred premium income from 35.0% to 21.0%. If the Company is not successful in defending these assessments, the taxes owed to the IRS may be computed under the previous 35.0% statutory tax rate and the Company may be required to revalue the related deferred tax liabilities from 21.0% to 35.0%, which in addition to any interest due on the amounts assessed, would require a charge to future earnings. The ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain, could take many years and could result in a material adverse impact to the Company’s financial statements, including its cash flows and effective tax rate.  

Tax authorities in Denmark have raised significant issues related to interest accrued by certain of the Company’s subsidiaries. On December 10, 2013, the Company received assessments from the Danish tax authority (“SKAT”) of approximately DKK 1.8 billion (approximately $266 million based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2019) including interest through December 31, 2019, imposing withholding tax relating to interest accrued in Denmark on borrowings from certain of the Company’s subsidiaries for the years 2004-2009. The Company appealed these assessments to the Danish National Tax Tribunal in 2014. The appeal is pending, awaiting the final outcome of other, preceding withholding tax cases that were appealed to the Danish courts and subsequently to the Court of Justice of the European Union (“CJEU”). In February 2019, the CJEU decided several of these cases and ruled that the exemption of interest payments from withholding taxes provided in the applicable EU directive should be denied where taxpayers use the directive for abusive or fraudulent purposes, and that it is up to the national courts to make this determination. This decision of the CJEU now awaits application by the Danish High Court in the other, preceding withholding tax cases.  

SKAT has maintained a similar position related to withholding tax on interest accrued in Denmark on borrowings from certain of the Company’s subsidiaries with respect to tax years 2010-2012 and 2013-2015. On August 27, 2019 and December 16, 2019, the Company received assessments for these matters of approximately DKK 1.1 billion including interest through December 31, 2019 (approximately $159 million based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2019) for tax years 2010-2012 and DKK 751 million including interest through December 31, 2019 (approximately $113 million based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2019) for tax years 2013-2015, respectively. The Company is appealing these assessments as well. 

46
Management believes the positions the Company has taken in Denmark are in accordance with the relevant tax laws and is vigorously defending its positions. The Company intends on pursuing this matter through the Danish High Court should the appeal to the Danish National Tax Tribunal be unsuccessful. The Company will continue to monitor decisions of both the Danish courts and the CJEU and evaluate the impact of these court rulings on the Company’s tax positions in Denmark. The ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain, could take many years, and could result in a material adverse impact to the Company’s financial statements, including its cash flow and effective tax rate.

The Company expects its 2020 effective tax rate to be approximately 19.5%. Any future legislative changes in the United States including potential tax reform in other jurisdictions, could cause the Company’s effective tax rate to differ from this estimate. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to income taxes.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 

As further discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, discontinued operations include the results of Envista which was disposed of during the fourth quarter of 2019 as well as an income tax benefit in 2017 related to the Fortive businesses that were disposed of during the third quarter of 2016. 

In 2019, earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, were $576 million and reflect the operating results of Envista prior to the Envista Disposition and a gain on the disposition of Envista of $451 million, net of certain costs associated with the Envista Disposition including costs related to establishing Envista as a stand-alone entity and legal, accounting and investment banking fees. In 2018 and 2017, earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, were $245 million and $320 million, respectively, and reflect the operations of Envista as well as a $22 million income tax benefit in 2017 related to the release of previously provided reserves associated with uncertain tax positions on certain Danaher tax returns which were jointly filed with Fortive entities. These reserves were released due to the expiration of statutes of limitations for those returns. All Fortive entity-related balances are included in the income tax benefit related to discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2017. 

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Comprehensive income increased by approximately $726 million in 2019 as compared to 2018, primarily due to a decrease in losses from foreign currency translation adjustments in 2019 compared to 2018 and higher net earnings (including those attributable to discontinued operations) partially offset by an increase in losses from pension and postretirement plan benefit adjustments in 2019 compared to 2018 and losses from cash flow hedge adjustments in 2019. The Company recorded a foreign currency translation loss of $75 million for 2019 compared to a translation loss of $632 million for 2018. The Company recorded a pension and postretirement plan benefit loss of $90 million for 2019 compared to a loss of $13 million for 2018. The Company recorded losses from cash flow hedge adjustments in 2019 of $113 million.

Comprehensive income decreased by approximately $1.5 billion in 2018 as compared to 2017, primarily due to a loss from foreign currency translation adjustments in 2018 compared to a gain in 2017 and a loss from pension and postretirement plan benefit adjustments in 2018 as compared to a gain in 2017, partially offset by higher net earnings (including those attributable to discontinued operations) and a decrease in unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities in 2018 compared to 2017. The Company recorded a foreign currency translation loss of $632 million for 2018 compared to a translation gain of $976 million for 2017. The Company recorded a pension and postretirement plan benefit loss of $13 million in 2018 compared to a gain of $71 million in 2017. 

INFLATION

The effect of inflation on the Company’s revenues and net earnings was not significant in any of the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 or 2017.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices as well as credit risk, each of which could impact its Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company generally addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities. The Company also periodically uses derivative financial instruments to manage foreign exchange risks and interest rate risks. In addition, the Company’s broad-based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its operating profit as a whole.

47
Interest Rate Risk

The Company manages interest cost using a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. A change in interest rates on fixed rate long-term debt impacts the fair value of the debt but not the Company’s earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed. Generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. As of December 31, 2019, an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the Company’s fixed-rate long-term debt (excluding the LYONs, which have not been included in this calculation as the value of this convertible debt is primarily derived from the value of its underlying common stock) by approximately $1.7 billion.

As of December 31, 2019, the Company’s variable-rate debt obligations consisted primarily of euro-based commercial paper borrowings (refer to Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s outstanding commercial paper balances as of December 31, 2019). As a result, the Company’s primary interest rate exposure results from changes in short-term interest rates. As these shorter duration obligations mature, the Company may issue additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. In 2019, the average annual interest rate associated with outstanding commercial paper borrowings was approximately negative 19 basis points. A hypothetical increase of this average to negative 12 basis points would have increased the Company’s annual interest expense by $2 million. The hypothetical increase used is the actual amount by which the Company’s commercial paper interest rates fluctuated during 2019.

Refer to “Results of Operations—Interest Costs” for discussion of the Company’s cross-currency swap derivative contracts and interest rate swap agreements.

Currency Exchange Rate Risk

The Company faces transactional exchange rate risk from transactions with customers in countries outside the United States and from intercompany transactions between affiliates. Transactional exchange rate risk arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than Danaher’s functional currency or the functional currency of its applicable subsidiary. The Company also faces translational exchange rate risk related to the translation of financial statements of its foreign operations into U.S. dollars, Danaher’s functional currency. Costs incurred and sales recorded by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the Company’s net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component of stockholders’ equity. 

Currency exchange rates negatively impacted 2019 reported sales by 2.0% on a year-over-year basis, primarily as a result of the U.S. dollar strengthening against other major currencies. If the exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2019 were to prevail throughout 2020, currency exchange rates would slightly increase 2020 estimated sales relative to 2019 sales. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies compared to the exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2019 would adversely impact the Company’s sales and results of operations on an overall basis. Any weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies compared to the exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2019 would positively impact the Company’s sales and results of operations.

The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this transactional exchange risk, although the Company has used foreign currency-denominated debt and cross-currency swaps to hedge a portion of its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. Both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of sales and net earnings in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the Company has assets and liabilities held in foreign currencies. A 10% depreciation in major currencies relative to the U.S. dollar as of December 31, 2019 would have reduced foreign currency-denominated net assets and stockholders’ equity by approximately $830 million. In 2019, the Company entered into approximately $1.9 billion of cross-currency swap derivative contracts on its U.S. dollar-denominated bonds to hedge its net investment in foreign operations against adverse changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Danish kroner, Japanese yen, euro and the Swiss franc. These contracts effectively convert the Company’s U.S. dollar-denominated bonds to obligations denominated in Danish kroner, Japanese yen, euro and Swiss franc, and partially offset the impact of changes in currency rates on foreign currency-denominated net assets during the term of the swap. As of December 31, 2019, approximately $1.0 billion of the cross-currency swap derivative contracts remained outstanding. The Company also uses cross-currency swap derivative contracts to hedge U.S. dollar-denominated long-term debt issuances in a foreign subsidiary whose functional currency is the euro against adverse movements in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the euro. In November 2019, the Company entered into cross-currency swap derivative contracts with respect to 

48
approximately $4.0 billion of its U.S. dollar-denominated bonds and all of these derivative contracts remained outstanding as of December 31, 2019.

Equity Price Risk

The Company’s investment portfolio from time to time includes publicly-traded equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in market price, though as of December 31, 2019, the Company held no available-for-sale marketable equity securities. The Company holds non-marketable equity investments in privately held companies that may be impacted by equity price risks or other factors. These non-marketable equity investments are accounted for under the Fair Value Alternative method with changes in fair value recorded in earnings. Volatility in the equity markets or other fair value considerations could affect the value of these investments and require charges or gains to be recognized in earnings. 

Commodity Price Risk

For a discussion of risks relating to commodity prices, refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Credit Risk

The Company is exposed to potential credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to its financial instruments. Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, receivables from customers and derivatives. The Company places cash and temporary investments with various high-quality financial institutions throughout the world and exposure is limited at any one institution. Although the Company typically does not obtain collateral or other security to secure these obligations, it does regularly monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold its cash and cash equivalents. The Company’s emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds.

In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from receivables from customers are limited due to the diversity of the Company’s customers. The Company’s businesses perform credit evaluations of their customers’ financial conditions as deemed appropriate and also obtain collateral or other security when deemed appropriate.

The Company enters into derivative transactions infrequently and typically with high-quality financial institutions, so that exposure at any one institution is limited.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Management assesses the Company’s liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities. The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and forecasts that its operating cash flow and other sources of liquidity will be sufficient to allow it to continue investing in existing businesses, consummating strategic acquisitions and investments, paying interest and servicing debt and managing its capital structure on a short and long-term basis. In addition, as discussed in further detail above, the Company received approximately $2.0 billion of cash from Envista as consideration for the transfer of the Company’s dental businesses to Envista, a portion of which consideration the Company used to redeem certain of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness in the fourth quarter of 2019.

49
Following is an overview of the Company’s cash flows and liquidity for the years ended December 31:

Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•On March 1, 2019, the Company completed the underwritten public offering of 12.1 million shares of Danaher common stock at a price to the public of $123.00 per share resulting in net proceeds of approximately $1.4 billion, after deducting expenses and the underwriters’ discount. Simultaneously, the Company completed the underwritten public offering of 1.65 million shares of its MCPS resulting in net proceeds of approximately $1.6 billion, after deducting expenses and the underwriters’ discount. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the underwritten public offerings of its Common Stock and MCPS (the “Common Stock Offering” and “MCPS Offering”, respectively) to fund a portion of the cash consideration payable for, and certain costs associated with, the GE Biopharma Acquisition.

•In the second half of 2019, the Company issued approximately €6.2 billion of senior unsecured euronotes and approximately $4.0 billion of senior unsecured notes. The proceeds from these issuances will be used to fund a portion of the cash consideration payable for the GE Biopharma Acquisition. 

50
•On December 18, 2019, Danaher completed the Envista Disposition. Prior to the IPO, Envista borrowed $650 million under a senior unsecured term loan and €600 million under a three-year, senior unsecured term loan facility. Envista transferred the net proceeds from these borrowings along with the net proceeds of $643 million from the Envista IPO to the Company in consideration for the Company’s transfer of the dental businesses to Envista.

•Danaher used a portion of the consideration received from Envista to redeem $882 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness in the fourth quarter of 2019 (consisting of the Company’s 2.4% senior unsecured notes due 2020 and 5.0% senior unsecured notes due 2020 (collectively the “Redeemed Notes”)), as well as the make-whole premiums and accrued and unpaid interest required to be paid in connection with such redemptions. The Company used the balance of the consideration it received from Envista to redeem commercial paper borrowings as they matured.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period-to-period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities and productivity improvement initiatives, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows.

Operating cash flows from continuing operations were approximately $3.7 billion for 2019, an increase of $13 million, or less than 1%, as compared to 2018. The year-over-year change in operating cash flows from 2018 to 2019 was primarily attributable to the following factors:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating cash flows from continuing operations were approximately $3.6 billion for 2018, an increase of $522 million, or 17%, as compared to 2017. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in net earnings from continuing operations in 2018 as compared to 2017. Net earnings in 2017 also included a $73 million gain on sale of marketable equity securities for which the proceeds were reflected in the investing activities section of the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and therefore, did not contribute to operating cash flows. 

51
Investing Activities

Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures, including instruments leased to customers, cash used for investments and cash proceeds from divestitures of businesses or assets.

Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $1.2 billion during 2019 compared to approximately $2.9 billion and $843 million of net cash used in 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments

For a discussion of the Company’s 2019 acquisitions refer to “—Overview.” In addition, in 2019, the Company invested $241 million in non-marketable equity securities and partnerships. 

During 2018, the Company acquired two businesses for total consideration of approximately $2.2 billion in cash, net of cash acquired. The businesses acquired complement existing units of the Company’s Life Sciences and Environmental & Applied Solutions segments. The aggregate annual sales of these two businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the companies’ revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were $313 million.

In addition, in 2018, the Company invested $146 million in non-marketable equity securities and partnerships. The Company received cash proceeds of $22 million from the collection of short-term other receivables related to the sale of certain marketable equity securities during 2017.

During 2017, the Company acquired nine businesses for total consideration of $386 million in cash, net of cash acquired. The businesses acquired complement existing units of the Life Sciences and Environmental & Applied Solutions segments. The aggregate annual sales of these nine businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the companies’ revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were $160 million.

The Company received $138 million of cash proceeds and recorded $22 million in short-term other receivables from the sale of certain marketable equity securities during 2017. The Company recorded a pretax gain related to this sale of $73 million ($46 million after-tax or $0.06 per diluted share).

Capital Expenditures

Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development, improving information technology systems and the manufacture of instruments that are used in operating-type lease arrangements that certain of the Company’s businesses enter into with customers. Capital expenditures totaled $636 million in 2019 and $584 million in 2018. The year-over-year increase in capital spending in 2019 was due to increased investments in operating assets and new facilities across the Company. In 2020, the Company expects capital spending to be approximately $700 million, though actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions.

Financing Activities

Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of cash flows associated with the issuance and repayments of commercial paper, issuance and repayment of long-term debt, issuance and repurchases of common stock, issuance of preferred stock, payments of cash dividends to shareholders and proceeds from the Envista IPO. Financing activities provided cash of approximately $16.4 billion during 2019 compared to $797 million of cash used during 2018. The year-over-year increase in cash provided by financing activities was due primarily to the public offerings of the Company’s common and preferred stock during the first quarter of 2019, the issuance of debt by the Company in the second half of 2019, the proceeds received from the Envista IPO and Envista debt issuances, and net proceeds from commercial paper borrowings in 2019 compared to 2018. These sources of liquidity were partially offset by higher debt redemptions during 2019 compared to 2018 which included the impact of the early extinguishment of $882 million of borrowings through the use of the proceeds received from Envista as part of the disposition of this business.

Financing activities used cash of $797 million during 2018 compared to approximately $3.1 billion of cash used during 2017. The year-over-year decrease in cash used in financing activities was due primarily to lower net repayments of commercial paper borrowings in 2018, as the Company decreased its commercial paper borrowings in 2017 after increasing commercial paper borrowings for the Cepheid acquisition in 2016. The Company issued commercial paper early in 2018 to pay for a portion of the acquisition price of IDT and repaid substantially all of such commercial paper borrowings later in 2018. The cash outflow in 2017 for the net repayment of commercial paper was partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of long-term notes. In both 2018 and 2017, the Company repaid long-term debt, including $500 million aggregate principal amount of U.S. Notes with accrued interest that matured in September 2018. 

52
Total debt was approximately $21.7 billion and $9.7 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company had the ability to incur approximately $4.9 billion of additional indebtedness in direct borrowings or under the outstanding commercial paper facilities based on the amounts available under the Company’s $10.0 billion of credit facilities which were not being used to backstop outstanding commercial paper balances as of December 31, 2019. The Company has classified approximately $5.0 billion of its borrowings outstanding under the euro-denominated commercial paper program as of December 31, 2019 as long-term debt in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company has the intent and ability, as supported by availability under the revolving credit facility, to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date. As commercial paper obligations mature, the Company may issue additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. 

Under the Company’s U.S. and euro-denominated commercial paper program, the notes are typically issued at a discount from par, generally based on the ratings assigned to the Company by credit rating agencies at the time of the issuance and prevailing market rates measured by reference to LIBOR or EURIBOR. Additionally, the Company’s floating rate senior unsecured notes due 2022 pay interest based upon the three-month EURIBOR plus 0.3%. In July 2017, the head of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority announced the intent to phase out the use of LIBOR by the end of 2021. The U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions, is considering replacing U.S. dollar LIBOR with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or SOFR, a new index calculated by short-term repurchase agreements, backed by Treasury securities. The Company has evaluated the anticipated impact of the transition from LIBOR and does not expect the transition to be material to the Company’s financial position. 

Refer to Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Company’s financing activities and indebtedness, including the Company’s outstanding debt as of December 31, 2019, and the Company’s commercial paper program and related credit facilities.

Common Stock Offering and MCPS Offering

For a description of the first quarter 2019 Common Stock and MCPS Offerings, refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Shelf Registration Statement

The Company has filed a “well-known seasoned issuer” shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance. The Company expects to use net proceeds realized by the Company from future securities sales off this shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including without limitation repayment or refinancing of debt or other corporate obligations, acquisitions, capital expenditures, share repurchases and dividends and/or working capital.

Stock Repurchase Program

Please see “Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” in Item 5 of Part II of this Annual Report for a description of the Company’s stock repurchase program.

Dividends

The Company declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.17 per share of Company common stock that was paid on January 31, 2020 to holders of record on December 27, 2019. In addition, the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $11.875 per MCPS that was paid on January 15, 2020 to holders of record as of December 31, 2019. Aggregate cash payments for dividends on Company common stock during 2019 were $478 million. The year-over-year increase in dividend payments on common stock in 2019 results from increases in the quarterly dividend rate effective with respect to the dividend paid in the second quarter of 2019. Aggregate cash payments for dividends on the MCPS during 2019 were $49 million.

Cash and Cash Requirements

As of December 31, 2019, the Company held approximately $19.9 billion of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment-grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less with an approximate weighted average annual interest rate of 1.5%. Of this amount, approximately $16.3 billion was held within the United States and approximately $3.6 billion was held outside of the United States. The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments, pay interest and service debt, pay taxes and any related interest or penalties, fund its restructuring activities and pension plans as required, pay dividends to shareholders, repurchase shares of the Company’s common stock and support other business needs. The Company generally intends to use available 

53
cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements, but in the event that additional liquidity is required, particularly in connection with acquisitions (including the GE Biopharma Acquisition), the Company may also borrow under its commercial paper programs or credit facilities, enter into new credit facilities and either borrow directly thereunder or use such credit facilities to backstop additional borrowing capacity under its commercial paper programs and/or issue debt and/or equity in the capital markets. The Company also may from time to time access the capital markets to take advantage of favorable interest rate environments or other market conditions. For a description of the Company’s anticipated financing of the GE Biopharma Acquisition, refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

While repatriation of some cash held outside the United States may be restricted by local laws, most of the Company’s foreign cash could be repatriated to the United States. Following enactment of the TCJA and the associated Transition Tax, in general, repatriation of cash to the United States can be completed with no incremental U.S. tax; however, repatriation of cash could subject the Company to non-U.S. jurisdictional taxes on distributions. The cash that the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries hold for indefinite reinvestment is generally used to finance foreign operations, investments and acquisitions. The income taxes applicable to repatriating such earnings are not readily determinable. As of December 31, 2019, the Company continues to assert that principally all of its non-U.S. earnings are indefinitely reinvested and management believes that the Company has sufficient liquidity to satisfy its cash needs, including its cash needs in the United States.

During 2019, the Company contributed $10 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $44 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans. During 2020, the Company’s cash contribution requirements for its U.S. and its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans are expected to be approximately $95 million and $40 million, respectively. The ultimate amounts to be contributed depend upon, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plan’s funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors.

Contractual Obligations

The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Company’s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019 under (1) debt obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long-term liabilities reflected on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The amounts presented in the “Other long-term liabilities” line in the table below include approximately $1.3 billion of noncurrent gross unrecognized tax benefits and related interest (and do not include $58 million of current gross unrecognized tax benefits which are included in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet). The timing of the long-term portion of these tax liabilities is uncertain, and therefore, they have been included in the “More Than 5 Years” column in the table below. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on unrecognized tax benefits. Certain of the Company’s acquisitions also involve the potential payment of contingent consideration. The table below does not reflect any such obligations, as the timing and amounts of any such payments are uncertain. Refer to “—Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” for a discussion of other contractual obligations that are not reflected in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) As described in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b) Amounts do not include interest payments. Interest on debt and capital lease obligations is reflected in a separate line in the table.

(c) Interest payments on debt are projected for future periods using the interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2019. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in market interest rates.

54
(d) Amounts reflect undiscounted future operating lease payments under Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), while the current and long-term operating lease liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet reflect the discounted future operating lease payments. Refer to Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

(e) Consist of agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable, legally binding on the Company, and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions and the approximate timing of the transaction.

(f) Primarily consist of obligations under product service and warranty policies and allowances, performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs, self-insurance and litigation claims, postretirement benefits, pension obligations, deferred tax liabilities and deferred compensation obligations. The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations is based upon management’s estimates over the terms of these arrangements and is largely based upon historical experience. Other long-term liabilities reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet include the above amounts as well as the long-term operating lease liabilities, which are reflected on a discounted basis in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Guarantees and Related Instruments

The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of guarantees and related instruments of the Company as of December 31, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Guarantees and related instruments consist primarily of outstanding standby letters of credit, bank guarantees and performance and bid bonds. These have been provided in connection with certain arrangements with vendors, customers, insurance providers, financing counterparties and governmental entities to secure the Company’s obligations and/or performance requirements related to specific transactions.

Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters. In particular, in connection with the 2019 Envista Disposition, the 2016 Fortive Disposition and the 2015 Communications disposition, Danaher entered into separation and related agreements pursuant to which Danaher agreed to indemnify the other parties against certain damages and expenses that might occur in the future. These indemnification obligations cover a variety of liabilities, including, but not limited to, employee, tax and environmental matters. The Company has not included any such items in the contractual obligations table above because they generally relate to unknown conditions and the Company cannot estimate the potential liabilities from such matters, but the Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that any such liability will have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements. In addition, as a result of these divestitures, as well as restructuring activities, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacate any of these premises, the Company would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub-lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Company’s financial statements.

In the normal course of business, the Company periodically enters into agreements that require it to indemnify customers, suppliers or other business partners for specific risks, such as claims for injury or property damage arising out of the Company’s products, software or services or claims alleging that Company products or services infringe third-party intellectual property. The Company has not included any such indemnification provisions in the contractual obligations table above. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant losses on these types of indemnification obligations.

The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions. Danaher’s Amended and Restated By-laws provide for similar indemnification rights. In addition, Danaher has executed with each director and executive officer of Danaher Corporation an indemnification agreement which provides for substantially similar indemnification rights and under which Danaher has agreed to pay expenses in advance of the final disposition of any such indemnifiable proceeding. While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage.

55
Legal Proceedings

Refer to “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding legal proceedings and contingencies, and for a discussion of risks related to legal proceedings and contingencies, refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Management’s discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases these estimates and judgments on historical experience, the current economic environment and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates and judgments.

The Company believes the following accounting estimates are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements. Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and (2) material changes in the estimate are reasonably likely from period-to-period. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Acquired Intangibles—The Company’s business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill, in-process R&D and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges that the Company may incur. Refer to Notes 1, 3 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s policies relating to goodwill, acquired intangibles and acquisitions.

In performing its goodwill impairment testing, the Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market-based approach. In evaluating the estimates derived by the market-based approach, management makes judgments about the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and marketplace data as well as judgments about the comparability of the market proxies selected. In certain circumstances the Company also estimates fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (i.e., an income approach) in order to validate the results of the market approach. The discounted cash flow model requires judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and terminal values. There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and management’s judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. 

As of December 31, 2019, the Company had five reporting units for goodwill impairment testing. Reporting units resulting from recent acquisitions generally present the highest risk of impairment. Management believes the impairment risk associated with these reporting units generally decreases as these businesses are integrated into the Company and better positioned for potential future earnings growth. The Company’s annual goodwill impairment analysis in 2019 indicated that in all instances, the fair values of the Company’s reporting units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units as of the annual testing date ranged from approximately 85% to approximately 600%. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those hypothetical values to the reporting unit carrying values. Based on this hypothetical 10% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units ranged from approximately 65% to approximately 530%.

The Company reviews identified intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The Company also tests intangible assets with indefinite lives at least annually for impairment. Determining whether an impairment loss occurred requires a comparison of the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. These analyses require management to make judgments and estimates about future revenues, expenses, market conditions and discount rates related to these assets.

If actual results are not consistent with management’s estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings which would adversely affect the Company’s financial statements. Historically, the Company’s estimates of goodwill and intangible assets have been materially correct.

56
Contingent Liabilities—As discussed in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities). The Company recognizes a liability for any legal contingency that is known or probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims and the cost of both pending and future claims. In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors, including those discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. If the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company’s financial statements.

Revenue Recognition—The Company derives revenues from the sale of products and services. Revenue is recognized when control over the promised products or services is transferred to the customer in an amount that reflects the consideration that the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In determining if control has transferred, the Company considers whether certain indicators of the transfer of control are present, such as the transfer of title, present right to payment, significant risks and rewards of ownership and customer acceptance when acceptance is not a formality. To determine the consideration that the customer owes the Company, the Company must make judgments regarding the amount of customer allowances and rebates, as well as an estimate for product returns. The Company also enters into lease arrangements with customers which requires the Company to determine whether the arrangements are operating or sales-type leases. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s revenue recognition policies.

If the Company’s judgments regarding revenue recognition prove incorrect, the Company’s reported revenues in particular periods may be incorrect. Historically, the Company’s estimates of revenue have been materially correct.

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits—For a description of the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit accounting practices, refer to Notes 13 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Calculations of the amount of pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations, including assumptions regarding discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rates of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates and other factors. If the assumptions used in calculating pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are incorrect or if the factors underlying the assumptions change (as a result of differences in actual experience, changes in key economic indicators or other factors) the Company’s financial statements could be materially affected. A 50 basis point reduction in the discount rates used for the plans would have increased the U.S. net obligation by $133 million ($99 million on an after-tax basis) and the non-U.S. net obligation by $137 million ($116 million on an after-tax basis) from the amounts recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2019. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rates used for the plans would have decreased the U.S. net obligation by $122 million ($91 million on an after-tax basis) and the non-U.S. net obligation by $124 million ($105 million on an after-tax basis) from the amounts recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2019.

For 2019, the estimated long-term rate of return for the U.S. plans was 7.0%, and the Company intends to continue to use an assumption of 7.0% for 2020. The estimated long-term rate of return for the non-U.S. plans was determined on a plan-by-plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 0.8% to 5.0%. If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for 2019 was reduced by 50 basis points, pension expense for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans for 2019 would have increased $9 million ($7 million on an after-tax basis) and $5 million ($4 million on an after-tax basis), respectively.

For a discussion of the Company’s 2019 and anticipated 2020 defined benefit pension plan contributions, refer to “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Cash and Cash Requirements”.

Income Taxes—For a description of the Company’s income tax accounting policies, refer to Notes 1 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. This requires management to make judgments and estimates regarding: (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax planning strategies. Future changes to tax rates would also impact the amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. 

The Company provides for unrecognized tax benefits when, based upon the technical merits, it is “more likely than not” that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination. Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions. The Company re-evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and may recognize an uncertain tax benefit in certain circumstances, including when: (1) a tax audit is completed; (2) applicable tax laws change, including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (3) the applicable statute of limitations expires.

57
In addition, certain of the Company’s tax returns are currently under review by tax authorities including in Denmark and the United States (refer to “—Results of Operations—Income Taxes” and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Management believes the positions taken in these returns are in accordance with the relevant tax laws. However, the outcome of these audits is uncertain and could result in the Company being required to record charges for prior year tax obligations which could have a material adverse impact to the Company’s financial statements, including its effective tax rate.

An increase of 1.0% in the Company’s 2019 nominal tax rate would have resulted in an additional income tax provision for continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 of $33 million.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

For a discussion of the new accounting standards impacting the Company, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK