Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

The Company is exposed to market risk from financial instruments primarily from changes in interest rates. Such risks derive from the refinancing of debt maturities, from exposure to interest rate fluctuations on floating rate debt and from derivative instruments utilized to swap fixed rate debt to floating or to hedge rates in anticipation of future debt issuances. Our operating results are, therefore, affected by changes in short-term interest rates, primarily London interbank offered rate (“LIBOR”) and Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (“SIFMA”) indices, which directly impact borrowings under our revolving credit facility and interest on secured and unsecured borrowings contractually tied to such rates. Short-term interest rates also indirectly affect the discount on notes issued under our commercial paper program. Additionally, we have exposure to long-term interest rates, particularly U.S. Treasuries as they are utilized to price our long term borrowings and therefore affect the cost of refinancing existing debt or incurring additional debt. 

The Company monitors and manages interest rates as part of its risk management process, by targeting adequate levels of floating rate exposure and an appropriate debt maturity profile. From time to time, we may utilize derivative instruments to manage interest rate exposure and to comply with the requirements of certain lenders, but not for trading or speculative purposes. See also Note 10 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of derivative instruments. 

The Company had total variable rate debt of $1.4 billion, representing 15.3% of total debt, and $1.4 billion, representing 16.4% of total debt as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher in 2019 and 2018 and average balances coincided with year end balances, our annual interest expense would have been $13.8 million and $14.5 million higher, respectively. Unsecured notes issued under the Company’s commercial paper program are treated as variable rate debt for the purposes of this calculation even though they do not have a stated interest rate, given their short-term nature. The effect of derivatives, if applicable, is also considered when computing the total amount of variable rate debt. 

Changes in interest rates also affect the estimated fair market value of our fixed rate debt, computed using a discounted cash flow model. As of December 31, 2019, the Company had total outstanding fixed rate debt of $7.7 billion, or 84.7% of total debt, with an estimated fair market value of $8.2 billion. If interest rates had been 100 basis points lower as of December 31, 2019, the estimated fair market value would have increased by approximately $664.4 million. As of December 31, 2018, the Company had total outstanding fixed rate debt of $7.4 billion, or 83.6% of total debt, with an estimated fair market value of $7.4 billion. If interest rates had been 100 basis points lower as of December 31, 2018, the estimated fair market value would have increased by approximately $514.3 million. 

42 

Table of Contents 

The Company had no outstanding derivative instruments as of December 31, 2019 and had derivative instruments with a net liability fair value of approximately $10.1 million as of December 31, 2018. If interest rates had been 27 basis points (representing 10% of the weighted average of the then prevailing market rates) lower on December 31, 2018, the liability would have increased by approximately $11.3 million.  

These amounts were determined by considering the impact of hypothetical interest rates on the Company’s financial instruments. These analyses do not consider the effects of the changes in overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. Further, in the event of changes of such magnitude, management would likely take actions to further mitigate its exposure to these changes. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, this analysis assumes no changes in the Company’s financial structure or results. 

The Company cannot predict the effect of adverse changes in interest rates on its debt and derivative instruments and, therefore, its exposure to market risk, nor can there be any assurance that long-term debt will be available at advantageous pricing. Consequently, future results may differ materially from the estimated adverse changes discussed above. 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data