PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Note – Information in this section is as of year end unless otherwise noted. The year end is December 31, 2019 unless additional years are included or noted.

Overview

Fastenal Company (together with our subsidiaries, hereinafter referred to as 'Fastenal' or the company or by terms such as we, our, or us) began as a partnership in 1967, and was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota in 1968. We opened our first branch in 1967 in Winona, Minnesota, a city with a population today of approximately 27,000. We began with a marketing strategy of supplying threaded fasteners to customers in small, medium-sized, and, in subsequent years, large cities. Over time, that mandate has expanded to a broader range of industrial and construction supplies spanning more than nine major product lines (described later in this document). The large majority of our transactions are business-to-business, though we also have some walk-in retail business. At the end of 2019, we had 3,228 in-market locations (defined in the table below) in 25 countries supported by 15 distribution centers in North America (12 in the United States, two in Canada, and one in Mexico), and we employed 21,948 people. We believe our success can be attributed to the high quality of our employees and their convenient proximity to our customers, and our ability to offer customers a full range of products and services to reduce their total cost of procurement.

The following table shows our consolidated net sales for each fiscal year as well as the number of public branches, Onsite locations, and total in-market locations at the end of each of the last ten years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Onsite location information prior to 2014 is intentionally omitted. While such locations have existed since 1992, we did not specifically track their number until we identified our Onsite program as a growth driver in 2014.

(2) 'In-market locations' is defined as the sum of the total number of public branches and the total number of Onsite locations.

One of Fastenal's guiding principles since inception is that we can improve our service by getting closer to the customer. Through much of our history, this was achieved by opening branches, and more recently through new Onsite locations. Today we believe there are few companies that offer our North American in-market location coverage. In 2019, roughly 53% of our sales and 53% of our in-market locations were in major Metropolitan Statistical Areas ('MSAs'; populations in the United States and Canada greater than 500,000 people), while 19% of our sales and 17% of our in-market locations were in small MSAs (populations under 500,000 people), and 28% of our sales and 30% of our in-market locations were not in an MSA. In our view, this has proven to be an efficient means of providing customers with a broad range of products and services on a timely basis. Branches have represented, and continue to represent, the foundation of our service approach. However, we are constantly evaluating the efficacy of our branch network and, in recent years, we have developed additional models that get us still closer to the customer, including vending, bin stocks, and Onsite locations.

We currently have several versions of selling locations: (1) a 'traditional (or public) branch' typically services a wide variety of customers and stocks a wide selection of products we offer, both as part of our standard stocking model and tailored to specific customer needs, (2) an 'overseas branch' focuses on manufacturing customers and our fastener product line (though non-fasteners are becoming more common in these markets) and is the format we typically deploy outside the United States and Canada, and (3) an 'Onsite location' provides dedicated sales and service from within, or in close proximity to, the customer's facility. We utilize additional types of selling locations within our network, but these tend to be more specialized in nature and relatively few in number, comprising less than five percent of our total selling locations.

Traditional and overseas branches sell to multiple customers, and together comprise the majority of our total selling locations. Onsite locations, which serve a single customer, are not included in our total branch counts. However, outside of the fact that they serve a single customer, we believe the function and operation of an Onsite location is similar to that of a branch. This model also represents a meaningful portion of the company's total revenue, and we expect that share to grow materially over time. As a result, we refer to our network in terms of in-market locations, which includes our total branches and Onsite locations.

Branch locations are selected primarily based on their proximity to our distribution network, population statistics, and employment data for manufacturing and non-residential construction companies. We stock all branches with inventory drawn 

3
from all of our product lines, and over time, where appropriate, our district and branch personnel may tailor the inventory offering to the needs of the local customer base. Since Fastenal's founding and through 2013, branch openings were a primary growth driver for the company, and we experienced net openings each year over that time span. We have long maintained that marketplace demographics could support a North American network of 3,500 traditional branches. However, since establishing this figure, new growth drivers and business models (Onsite, vending, digital solutions) have emerged and diminished the direct role of traditional branch openings in our growth. It is now unlikely that we will operate the total traditional branch locations we previously believed would be the potential of North America. We will continue to open traditional branches as the company sees fit. However, in each year since 2013, the company has experienced a net decline in its total branch count including net declines of 113 branches in 2019, 156 branches in 2018, and 120 branches in 2017.

Onsite locations may influence the trend in total branch count over time, but are not the primary reason for our branch closings. The Onsite concept is not new, in that we entered into the first such arrangement in 1992. However, we identified it as a growth driver in 2014 and have made substantial investments toward accelerating its traction in the marketplace since 2015. In this model, we service a customer from a location that is physically within the customer's facility (or, in some cases, at a strategically placed off-site location), with inventory that is specific to the customer's needs. In many cases, we are shifting revenue with the customer from an existing branch, though we are beginning to see more new customer opportunities arise as a result of our Onsite capabilities. The model is best suited to larger companies, though we believe we can provide a higher degree of service at a lower level of revenue than most of our competitors. It has been our experience that gross profit percentages at Onsite locations tend to be lower than at branches, but we gain significant revenue with the customer and our cost to serve is materially lower. We have identified over 15,000 customer locations with potential to implement the Onsite service model. These include customers with which we have an existing national account relationship today, as well as potential customers we are aware of due to our local market presence. We expect revenues from Onsite arrangements to increase meaningfully over time. We experienced net increases of 220, 289, and 204 Onsite locations in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively, and signed 362, 336, and 270 new Onsite locations in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. We had 1,114 Onsite locations as of December 31, 2019, and anticipate signing 375 to 400 new Onsite locations in 2020.

We first went international when we opened a branch in Canada in 1994. Since then, we have continued to expand our global footprint and at the end of 2019, we operated in 24 countries outside of the United States. Canada and Mexico are the largest of these, representing approximately 11% of total sales collectively, and we also operate in Europe, Asia, and Central and South America. This remaining international business is approximately 3% of total sales. Our go-to-market strategy in countries outside of North America focuses primarily on servicing large, national account customers. From a product perspective, these customers are more heavily oriented toward planned fastener spend. Though in recent years the international business has been growing faster than the U.S. business, we are not as well recognized in many of our foreign locations as we are in the U.S. and, to a lesser extent, Canada. However, our ability to provide a consistent service model, including vending, bin stocks, and Onsites, on a global basis is attractive to our foreign customer base, much of which are the foreign operations of U.S.-based companies. Our international subsidiaries now have 479 in-market locations, including 179 Onsite locations, have over 11,800 vending devices installed, and employ over 3,600 people from around the world.

4
The following table provides a summary of the public branches and Onsite locations we operated at the end of each year, as well as the openings, closings, and conversions during each year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Panama, Brazil, Colombia, and Chile

(2) Singapore, China, Malaysia, and Thailand

(3) The Netherlands, Hungary, United Kingdom, Germany, Czech Republic, Italy, Romania, Sweden, Poland, Austria, Switzerland, Ireland, Spain, and France

(4) South Africa

(5) The net impact of non-in-market locations or Onsite locations converted to branches, branches converted to Onsite locations or non-in-market locations, and closures of branches or Onsite locations.

In 1995, we developed a national accounts program aimed at making our products and services more competitive with customers that operate multiple facilities. These customers tend to have more complex supply chains and structures for managing the original equipment manufacturing ('OEM') and maintenance, repair, and operations ('MRO') products we provide while at the same time, by virtue of their size and opportunity, have more negotiating power. We believe our local presence as part of a national, and increasingly international, footprint, our ability to provide a consistent level of high-touch service and broad product availability, and our ancillary capabilities around manufacturing, quality control, and product knowledge, are attractive to these larger customers. We believe our advantage with these customers has only been strengthened as we have added other channels, such as industrial vending, Onsite, Fastenal Managed Inventory ('FMI®'), digital solutions, and resources to serve these customers' unique demands. As a result, in 2019, national accounts represented 53.6% of our sales, compared to 50.7% and 48.2% in 2018 and 2017, respectively. We believe sales to national accounts customers will continue to increase as a percent of our total sales over time.

We introduced industrial vending in 2008. Vending provides our customers the benefits of reduced consumption, reduced purchase orders, reduced product handling, and 24-hour product availability, and we believe our company has a market advantage by virtue of our extensive in-market network of inventory and local personnel. For these reasons, the initiative began to gain significant traction in 2011 and we finished 2019 with approximately 105,000 devices in the field (90,000 generating product revenue and 15,000 in a locker lease program). Our discussion generally focuses on the 90,000 product revenue devices. We believe vending has proven its effectiveness in strengthening our relationships with customers and helped to 

5
streamline the supply chain where it has been utilized. We also believe there remains considerable room to grow our current installed base before it begins to approach the number of units we believe the market can support. We estimate the market could support as many as 1.7 million industrial vending devices, and as a result we anticipate continued growth in installed devices over time. We anticipate signing 22,000 to 24,000 new devices in 2020.

Our industrial vending portfolio consists of 23 different vending devices, with 15 of these being in either a helix or locker format. Our most utilized models include the helix-based FAST 5000, which is approximately 40% of our installed base of devices, and our 12- and 18-door lockers, which combined are approximately 35% of our installed base of devices. The lockers are available in multiple configurations and the helix format is configurable to accommodate the various sizes and forms of products that will be dispensed to match the unique needs of our customers. Target monthly revenues per device typically range from under $1,000 to in excess of $3,000, depending on the type of device and products dispensed. The following two tables provide two views of our data: (1) actual device count regardless of the type of device and (2) 'machine equivalent' count based on the weighted target monthly revenue of each device (compared to the FAST 5000 device, which has a $2,000 monthly revenue target). For example, the 12-door locker, with target monthly revenue of $750, would be counted as '0.375 machine equivalent' (0.375 = $750/$2,000).

The industrial vending (product revenue devices) information related to contracts signed during each period was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The industrial vending (product revenue devices) information related to installed devices at the end of each period was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition to industrial vending noted above, which primarily relates to our non-fastener business, we also provide Fastenal Managed Inventory ('FMI') programs, (also known as 'keep fill' or 'bin stock' programs in the industry) to numerous customers. This business relates to both our maintenance customers (MRO fasteners and non-fasteners) and original equipment manufacturers (OEM fasteners). FMI is like our industrial vending business in that it involves moving product closer to the point of customer use within their facilities. However, the device is typically an open bin which is clustered with other bins in a racking system, each of which holds OEM fasteners, MRO fasteners, and/or non-fastener products that are consumed in the customer's operations. These bins utilize a variety of technologies. For instance, some bins are organized and labeled into customer plan-o-grams which allow for the scanning of product when product is at a minimum desired level and requires replenishment, while other systems utilize scales to measure the volume of a bin's content by its weight. In 2019, Fastenal introduced additional technology utilizing Remote Frequency Identification ('RFID') and Infrared ('IR') systems to bring additional value to the supply chain. RFID automates a standard Kanban program and IR automates the replenishment of individualized work stations. We believe our fully integrated distribution network allows us to manage the supply chain for all sizes of customers. FMI programs tend to generate a higher frequency of business transactions and, coupled with our fully integrated distribution network that allows us to manage these programs for all sizes of customers, foster a strong relationship with customers, as we are often their preferred supplier.

We also invest in digital solutions that aim to deliver strategic value for our customers, leverage local inventory for same-day solutions, and provide efficient service. These solutions take many forms. For instance, the above noted technologies (vending and FMI), provide locational data that we can utilize to provide strategic value to our customers. An example of this is FAST 360, which surfaces data around our managed services, providing our customers with one central source of information as we 

6
manage their OEM and MRO products. We also provide eProcurement Solutions (Electronic Data Interface, or 'EDI' and 'punchouts'). These provide system-to-system exchange of documents (such as purchase orders, advance shipping notices, and invoices for direct and indirect spend) through a direct integration into our customer's Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems or through a third party procurement network or marketplace. This creates an efficient, accurate, and streamlined procure-to-pay process. We also have an e-commerce offering that allows us to provide same-day solutions for online orders. We believe our integrated physical and virtual model, when paired with our national (and increasingly international) scope, represents a unique capability in industrial distribution when compared to e-commerce as an independent sales channel. One of our web solutions, Fastenal EXPRESS, guides our customers to products that are locally stocked, capitalizing on our existing location footprint, in order to provide same-day service for online orders. This positions us to outperform what is more typically a 24 to 48 hour fulfillment expectation for MRO and unplanned transactions. We expect to continue to build out and develop our digital solutions over time.

We believe our current growth drivers – Onsite locations, international expansion, national accounts, industrial vending, FMI, and digital solutions – on a global basis represent alternative means to address the requirements of certain customer groups. They get us closer to the customer and to where the product is actually consumed. This is consistent with our strategy and offers significant value by providing differentiated and 'sticky' service. Combined with ongoing strategic investments in end market initiatives as well as selling (in-market and otherwise) and non-selling (engineering, product specialists, manufacturing, etc.) employees, we offer a range of capabilities that is difficult for large and small competitors to replicate.

We remain committed to a large, robust service network, including traditional branches; it remains the indispensable foundation of our business. In any given year, it is difficult to predict whether our total branch count will rise or fall. However, with the growth we anticipate in Onsite locations, we believe our total in-market locations will increase over time.

We believe the profitability of our in-market locations is affected by the average revenue produced by each site. In any in-market location, certain costs related to growth are at least partly variable, such as employee-related expenses, while others, like rent and utility costs, tend to be fixed. As a result, it has been shown that as an in-market location increases its sales base over time it typically will achieve a higher operating profit margin. This ability to increase our operating profit margin is influenced by: (1) general growth based on end market expansion and/or market share gains, (2) the age of the in-market location (new locations tend to be less profitable due to start-up costs and, in the case of a traditional branch, the time necessary to generate a customer base), and/or (3) rationalization actions, as in the past several years we have seen a net decline in our traditional branch base. There are many reasons why local or regional management might decide to close a location. Key customers may have migrated to a different part of the market, factories may have closed, our own supply chain capabilities in a market may have evolved to allow us to service some areas with fewer traditional branches, and/or our customers may have transitioned to our Onsite model. The paths to higher operating profit margins are slightly different in a traditional branch versus an Onsite location, as the former will tend to have more fixed costs to leverage while the latter will tend to have a smaller fixed cost burden but have greater leverage of its employee-related expenses. In the short term, the Onsite program can hurt the profitability of our existing branch network as it can pull established revenue away from an existing branch even as its fixed expenses are largely unchanged.

We operate twelve regional distribution centers in the United States – Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, Washington, California, Utah, North Carolina, Kansas, and Mississippi – and three outside the United States – Ontario, Canada; Alberta, Canada; and Nuevo Leon, Mexico. These fifteen distribution centers give us approximately 4.5 million square feet of distribution capacity. These distribution centers are located so as to permit deliveries of two to five times per week to our in-market locations using our trucks and overnight delivery by surface common carrier, with approximately 87% of our North American in-market locations receiving service four to five times per week. The distribution center in Indiana also serves as a 'master' hub, with those in California, North Carolina, and Kansas serving as 'secondary' hubs to support the needs of the in-market locations in their geographic regions as well as provide a broader selection of products for the in-market locations serviced by the other distribution centers. 

We currently operate our Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, Washington, California, North Carolina, Kansas, and Ontario, Canada distribution centers with automated storage and retrieval systems ('ASRS'). These eleven distribution centers operate with greater speed and efficiency, and currently handle approximately 97% of our picking activity. We expect to add and/or expand new distribution centers over time as our scale and the number of our in-market locations increases.

Our information systems department develops, implements, and maintains the computer based technology used to support business functions within Fastenal. Corporate, digital, distribution center, and vending systems are primarily supported from central locations, while each selling location uses a locally installed Point-Of-Sale (POS) system. The systems consist of both customized, purchased, and licensed software. A dedicated Wide Area Network (WAN) is used to provide connectivity between systems and authorized users.

7
Trademarks and Service Marks

We conduct business under various trademarks and service marks, and we utilize a variety of designs and tag lines in connection with each of these marks, including Growth Through Customer Service®. Although we do not believe our operations are substantially dependent upon any of our trademarks or service marks, we consider the 'Fastenal' name and our other trademarks and service marks to be valuable to our business. We have registered, or applied for the registration of, various trademarks and service marks. Our registered trademarks and service marks are presumed valid in the United States as long as they are in use, their registrations are properly maintained, and they have not been found to have become generic. Registrations of trademarks and service marks can also generally be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks and service marks are in use.

Products

Fastenal was founded as a distributor of fasteners and related industrial and construction supplies. This includes threaded fasteners, bolts, nuts, screws, studs, and related washers, as well as miscellaneous supplies and hardware, such as pins, machinery keys, concrete anchors, metal framing systems, wire rope, strut, rivets, and related accessories. Our fastener product line, which is primarily sold under the Fastenal product name, represented 34.2%, 34.9%, and 35.6% of our consolidated net sales in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively.

Fastener distribution is complex. In most cases, the product has low per unit value but high per unit weight. This presents challenges in moving product from suppliers, most of whom are outside of North America, to our distribution centers, as well as from our distribution centers to our branch, Onsite, and customer locations. At the same time, fasteners are ubiquitous in manufactured products, construction projects, and maintenance and repair while at the same time exhibiting great geometric variability based on use and application. In many cases, a fastener is a critical part in machine uptime and/or effective use. These features have greatly influenced our logistical development, training and educational programs, support capabilities, and inventory decisions, which we believe would be difficult for competitors to replicate.

In 1993, we began to aggressively add additional product lines, and these represented 65.8%, 65.1%, and 64.4% of our consolidated sales in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. These products, which we refer to as non-fastener product lines, tend to move through the same distribution channel, get used by the same customers, and utilize the same logistical capabilities as the original fastener product line. This logic is as true today as it was when we first began to diversify our product offering. However, over time, the supply chain for these product lines has evolved in ways independent of the fastener line. For instance, non-fastener product lines benefit disproportionately from our development of industrial vending. 

The most significant category of non-fastener products is our safety supplies product line, which accounted for 17.9%, 17.2%, and 16.3% of our consolidated sales in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. This product line has enjoyed dramatic sales growth in the last ten years (nearly tripling as a percentage of sales over that ten-year time frame). This is directly related to our success in industrial vending. Our tools product line accounts for approximately 10% of consolidated net sales, representing 9.9%, 10.0%, and 10.1% in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively.

In the last several decades we have added 'private label' brands (often referred to as 'Exclusive Brands', or brands sold exclusively through Fastenal) to our non-fastener offering. These private label brands represented approximately 13%, 13%, and 12% of our consolidated net sales in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. We believe it is also appropriate to think about our private label sales as a percentage of our non-fastener sales for two reasons: (1) branded vs. private label dynamics of fasteners differ from those of non-fasteners; and (2) non-fastener data is more comparable to information reported by our peers, who do not generally have our significant mix of fastener business. Private label brands represented approximately 19%, 19%, and 20% of our total non-fastener sales in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Over the last few years, we have seen increases in sales of private label products as a percentage of total non-fastener sales when looking at specific sales channels such as Onsite locations, branches, and vending. However, these increases were masked by the relative sales growth we are experiencing with Onsite locations, which typically have a lower percentage of total sales being private label than is the case in branches or sales through vending devices.

We plan to continue to add other product lines in the future. 

Detailed information about our sales by product line is provided in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included later in this Form 10-K. Each product line may contain multiple product categories. 

Inventory Control

Our inventory stocking levels are determined using our computer systems, by our sales personnel at in-market locations, by our district and regional leadership, and by our product development team. The data used for this determination is derived from sales activity from all of our selling locations, from individual selling locations, and from different geographic areas. It is also derived from supplier information and from customer demographic information. The computer system monitors the inventory level for all stock items and triggers replenishment, or prompts a buyer to purchase, as necessary, based on an established 

8
minimum-maximum level. All branches stock a base inventory and may expand beyond preset inventory levels as deemed appropriate by the district and branch personnel. Non-branch selling locations (primarily Onsites) stock inventory based on customer-specific arrangements. Inventories in distribution centers are established from computerized data for the selling locations served by the respective distribution center. Inventory quantities are continuously re-balanced utilizing an automated transfer mechanism we call 'inventory re-distribution'.

Inventory held at our selling locations, close to customers and available on a same-day basis, accounted for approximately 60%, 61%, and 65% of our total inventory at the end of 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Inventory held at our distribution centers and manufacturing locations accounted for approximately 40%, 39%, and 35% of our total inventory at the end of 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. The distribution center and manufacturing location inventory, when combined with our trucking network, allows for fast, next-day service at a very competitive cost.

Manufacturing and Support Services Operations

In 2019, approximately 96% of our consolidated net sales were attributable to products manufactured by other companies to industry standards or to customer specific requirements. The remaining 4% related to products manufactured, modified or repaired by our manufacturing businesses or our support services. The manufactured products consist primarily of non-standard sizes of threaded fasteners and hardware made to customers' specifications at one of our nine manufacturing locations, or standard sizes manufactured under our Holo-Krome®, Cardinal Fasteners®, and Spensall® product lines. The services provided by the support services group include, but are not limited to, the repair of tools and hoists, the fabrication of chain sling and hose, band saw blade welding, and other light manufacturing and fabrication. We may add additional services in the future. However, we engage in these activities primarily as a service to our customers and expect them to continue to contribute in the range of 4% to 6% of our consolidated net sales in the future.

Sources of Supply

We use a large number of suppliers for the standard stock items we distribute. Most items distributed by our network can be purchased from several sources, although preferred sourcing is used for some stock items to facilitate quality control. No single supplier accounted for more than 5% of our inventory purchases in 2019.

In the case of fasteners and our private label non-fastener products, we have a large number of suppliers but these suppliers are heavily concentrated in a single geographic area, Asia. Within Asia, suppliers in China represent a significant source of product. As a result, the cost and effectiveness of our supply chain is dependent on relatively unfettered trade across geographic regions.

Beyond inventory, we have some concentration of purchasing activity. For example, we utilize a limited number of suppliers for our distribution equipment and our vehicle fleet, and primarily one supplier for our industrial vending equipment. However, we believe there are viable alternatives to each of these, if necessary.

Customers and Marketing

We believe our success can be attributed to our ability to offer customers a full line of quality products, our convenient locations and diverse methods of providing those products, and the superior service orientation and expertise of our employees. Most of our customers are in the manufacturing and non-residential construction markets. The manufacturing market includes both OEM and MRO customers. The non-residential construction market includes general, electrical, plumbing, sheet metal, and road contractors. Other users of our products include farmers, truckers, railroads, oil exploration companies, oil production and refinement companies, mining companies, federal, state, and local governmental entities, schools, and certain retail trades.

Based on our customer profile being oriented toward manufacturing and non-residential construction, our business has historically been cyclical. However, we believe our model has certain protections that moderate the volatility of our results around cyclical changes. First, we have a large number of customers that serve a wide range of segments within the broader manufacturing and non-residential construction market, although slumps in one industry served by us can rapidly spread to other, interrelated industries, locally or globally. However, we still believe this customer and market segment diversity provides some insulation from economic changes that are not across multiple industries and geographic regions. In addition, while a meaningful part of our revenue is derived from products that are incorporated into final products, we also have a significant portion of revenue that is derived from products used to maintain facilities. This latter source of revenue tends to be directly influenced by cyclical changes, but its rate of change tends to be less dramatic.

In an in-market location, our customer's business activity is tracked through 'active accounts'. Customers often have more than one active account at a single in-market location, reflecting their utilization of different Fastenal services, and frequently have active accounts at many in-market locations across our global network. During the fourth quarter of 2019, our total number of active customer accounts (defined as accounts having purchase activity totaling at least $100 within the last 90 days) was approximately 247,000, while our total 'core accounts' (defined as the average number of accounts with purchase activity of at least $500 per month within the last 90 days) was approximately 80,000. In 2019, no one customer accounted for more than 5% of our sales. 

9
Direct marketing continues to be the backbone of our business through our local in-market selling personnel, as well as our non-branch selling personnel. We support our sales team with multi-channel marketing including direct mail and digital marketing, print and radio advertising, catalogs, promotional flyers, events, and branch signage. In recent years, our national advertising has been focused on a NASCAR® sponsorship through our partnership with Roush Fenway Racing® as the primary sponsor of the No. 17 car in the Monster Energy® NASCAR® Cup Series.

Seasonality

Seasonality has some impact on our sales. The first and fourth quarters are typically our lowest volume periods, given their overlap with winter months in North America during which our direct and indirect sales to customers in the non-residential construction market typically slow due to inclement weather. The fourth quarter also tends to be more greatly affected by the Thanksgiving (October in Canada and November in the United States), Christmas, and New Year holiday periods, due to plant shut downs. In contrast, the second and third quarters typically have higher revenues due to stronger non-residential construction activity and relatively fewer holidays (although Good Friday will sometimes fall in the second quarter and the 4th of July will always fall in the third quarter).

Competition

Our business is highly competitive, and includes large competitors located primarily in large cities and smaller distributors located in many of the same smaller markets in which we have branches. We believe the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products, in no particular order, are customer service, price, convenience, product availability, and cost saving solutions.

Market strategies in industrial distribution are varied. Where products are concerned, while many larger distributors have trended toward a broad-line offering over time, they are often still closely associated with a specific product that can influence their ability to capture market share. This association with a specific product line is often even more pronounced among smaller competitors, though many smaller competitors do deploy a broad-line model. Means of serving the customer are even more diverse. For instance, many competitors maintain a local, branch-based presence in their markets, while others use vans to sell products in markets away from their main warehouses, while still others rely on catalogs or telemarketing sales. Recent years have seen the emergence of e-commerce solutions, such as websites, and while this channel has been embraced by many traditional distributors it also has introduced non-traditional, web-based competitors into the marketplace. The diversity of product and service models supported in the marketplace is a reflection of the equally diverse product and service needs of the customer base. The large majority of our customers utilize multiple channels, from a single distributor or from a range of distributors, to procure the products they need in their operations.

We believe that better service, and a competitive selling advantage, can be provided by maintaining a physical presence closer to the customer's location(s). As a result, we maintain branches in small, medium, and large markets, each offering a wide variety of products. The convenience of a large number of branches in a given area, combined with our ability to provide frequent deliveries to such branches from centrally located distribution centers, facilitates the prompt and efficient distribution of products. We also believe our industrial vending and bin stock solutions, supported from an in-market (branch or Onsite) location, provides a unique way to provide our customers convenient access to products and cost saving solutions using a business model not easily replicated by our competitors. Having trained personnel at each in-market location also enhances our ability to compete (see 'Employees' below).

Our Onsite service model provides us with a strategic advantage with our larger customers. Building on our core business strategy of the local branch, the Onsite model provides value to our customers through customized service while giving us a competitive advantage through stronger relationships with those customers, all with a relatively low investment given the existing branch and distribution structure.

10
Employees

At the end of 2019, we employed 21,948 full and part-time employees. Of these, approximately 72% held an in-market or non-branch selling role. We characterize these personnel as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note – In materials released on January 17, 2019 related to our fourth quarter and full year 2018 earnings results, we undercounted our total employees by 25. We corrected this in the table above, and throughout this document, and as a result some of the figures will not match the comparable figures in our previously published fourth quarter and full year 2018 earnings results.

We believe the quality of our employees is critical to our ability to compete successfully in the markets we currently serve and to our ability to develop new markets and customer relationships. We foster the growth and education of skilled employees throughout the organization by operating training programs and by decentralizing decision-making. Wherever possible, our goal is to 'promote from within'. For example, most new branch and Onsite managers are promoted from an outside sales position, and district managers (who supervise a number of in-market locations) are usually former branch managers.

The Fastenal School of Business (our internal corporate university program, known as FSB) develops and delivers a comprehensive array of industry and company-specific training and development programs that are offered to our employees. The programs are offered through a combination of both classroom training and online learning. FSB provides core curricula focused on key competencies determined to be critical to the success of our employees' performance. In addition, we provide specialized educational tracks within various institutes of learning. These institutes of learning are advanced levels that provide specific concentrations of education and development and have been designed to focus on critical aspects of our business, such as leadership, effective branch best practices, sales and marketing, product education, and distribution.

Our selling personnel are compensated with a base salary and an incentive bonus arrangement that places emphasis on achieving increased sales on a branch, Onsite, district, regional, and national account basis, while still attaining targeted levels of, among other things, gross profit, inventory management, and trade accounts receivable collections. As a result, a significant portion of our total employment cost varies with sales volume. We also pay incentive bonuses to our leadership personnel based on one or more of the following factors: sales growth, earnings growth (before and after taxes), profitability, and return on assets improvement, and to our other personnel for achieving predetermined departmental, project, and cost-containment goals.

Our employees are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements and we have experienced no work stoppages. We believe our employee relations are good.

Available Information

Our Internet address for corporate and investor information is www.fastenal.com. The information contained on our website or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report.

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act are available free of charge on or through our website at www.fastenal.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC.

11
ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS