PART I

Item 1. Business

General

Foot Locker, Inc., incorporated under the laws of the State of New York in 1989, is a leading global retailer. Foot Locker, Inc. leads the celebration of sneaker and youth culture around the globe through a portfolio of brands including Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Champs Sports, Eastbay, Footaction, Runners Point, and Sidestep. As of February 1, 2020, we operated 3,129 primarily mall-based stores, as well as stores in high-traffic urban retail areas and high streets, in 27 countries across the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, and Asia. Our purpose is to inspire and empower youth culture around the world, by fueling a shared passion for self-expression and creating unrivaled experiences at the heart of the global sneaker community.

Foot Locker, Inc. uses its omni-channel capabilities to bridge the digital world and physical stores, including order-in-store, buy online and pickup-in-store, and buy online and ship-from-store, as well as e-commerce. We operate websites and mobile apps aligned with the brand names of our store banners (including footlocker.com, ladyfootlocker.com, kidsfootlocker.com, champssports.com, footaction.com, footlocker.ca, footlocker.eu (and related e-commerce sites in the various European countries that we operate) footlocker.com.au, runnerspoint.com, sidestep-shoes.com, footlocker.hk, footlocker.sg, and footlocker.my). These sites offer some of the largest online product selections and provide a seamless link between e-commerce and physical stores. We also operate the websites for eastbay.com, final-score.com, and eastbayteamsales.com.

Foot Locker, Inc. and its subsidiaries hereafter are referred to as the “Registrant,” “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us.” Foot Locker, Inc. has its corporate headquarters in New York. The service marks, trade names, and trademarks appearing in this report (except for Nike, Jordan, adidas, and Puma) are owned by Foot Locker, Inc. or its subsidiaries.

Store and Operations Profile[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following is a brief description of each of our banners:

Foot Locker — Foot Locker is a leading global youth culture brand that connects the sneaker obsessed consumer with the most innovative and culturally relevant sneakers and apparel. Across all our consumer touchpoints, Foot Locker enables consumers to fulfill their desire to be part of sneaker and youth culture. We curate special product assortments and marketing content that supports our premium position – from leading global brands such as Nike, Jordan, adidas, and Puma, as well as new and emerging brands in the athletic and lifestyle space. We connect emotionally with our consumers through a combination of global brand events and highly targeted and personalized experiences in local markets including our community-based “power” stores, which provides pinnacle retail experiences that delivers connected customer interactions through service, experience, product, and a sense of community. Foot Locker’s 1,713 stores are located in 27 countries including 867 in the United States, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam, 105 in Canada, 636 in Europe, a combined 91 in Australia and New Zealand, and 14 in Asia. Our domestic stores have an average of 2,800 selling square feet and our international stores have an average of 1,700 selling square feet.

2019 Form 10-K Page 1

​ 

​

Kids Foot Locker — Kids Foot Locker offers the largest selection of premium brand-name athletic footwear, apparel, and accessories for children. Kids Foot Locker enables youth of all ages to participate in sneaker culture and helps their parents shop in a curated environment with only the best assortment in stores and online. Of our 431 stores, 376 are located in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, 37 in Europe, 16 in Canada, 1 in Australia, and 1 in New Zealand. These stores have an average of 1,700 selling square feet.

Lady Foot Locker — Lady Foot Locker is a U.S. retailer of athletic footwear, apparel, and accessories dedicated to sneaker-obsessed young women. Our stores provide premium sneakers and apparel, carefully selected to reflect the latest styles. Lady Foot Locker operates 46 stores that are located in the United States and Puerto Rico. These stores have an average of 1,400 selling square feet.

Champs Sports — Champs Sports is one of the largest mall-based specialty athletic footwear and apparel retailers in North America. With a focus on the lifestyle expression of sport, Champs Sports’ product categories include athletic footwear and apparel, and sport-lifestyle inspired accessories. This assortment allows Champs Sports to offer the best head-to-toe fashion stories representing the most powerful athletic brands, sports teams, and athletes in North America. Of our 536 stores, 503 are located in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands and 33 in Canada. The Champs Sports stores have an average of 3,600 selling square feet.

Footaction — Footaction is a North American athletic footwear and apparel retailer that offers the freshest, best edited selection of athletic lifestyle brands and looks. This banner is uniquely positioned at the intersection of sport and style, with a focus on authentic, premium product. Of our 245 stores, 240 are located in the United States and Puerto Rico and 5 are in Canada. The Footaction stores have an average of 3,200 selling square feet.

Runners Point — Runners Point specializes in running footwear, apparel, and equipment for both performance and lifestyle purposes. This banner offers athletically inspired premium products and personalized service. Runners Point also caters to local running communities providing technical products, training tips and access to local running and group events, while also serving their lifestyle running needs. Our 81 stores are located in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland. Runners Point stores have an average of 1,300 selling square feet.

Sidestep — Sidestep is a predominantly athletic fashion footwear banner. Our 77 stores are located in Germany, Austria, Netherlands, and Switzerland. Sidestep caters to a more discerning, fashion forward consumer. Sidestep stores have an average of 1,000 selling square feet. 

​

We closed the SIX:02 banner during 2019 and we will focus on providing our female customer an engaging retail experience through our other banners.

​

Eastbay

Eastbay is a sporting goods direct marketer operating in the United States, providing high school and other athletes with a complete sports solution including athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, and team licensed merchandise for a broad range of sports. With over 100 sales professionals, Eastbay Team Sales connects directly with thousands of high school coaches and athletic directors in the Unites States in offering the best performance product and premium level of service. 

Franchise Operations

We have franchised Foot Locker stores located within the Middle East, as well as franchised stores in Germany under the Runners Point banner. A total of 139 franchised stores were operating as of February 1, 2020, 9 in Germany and 130 in the Middle East, of which 52 are in Israel.

Employees

The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries had 15,589 full-time and 35,410 part-time employees as of February 1, 2020. The Company considers employee relations to be satisfactory.

Competition

The athletic footwear and apparel industry is highly competitive. We compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores, department stores, traditional shoe stores, mass merchandisers, and online retailers. 

2019 Form 10-K Page 2

​ 

​

Merchandise Purchases

Financial information concerning merchandise purchases is contained under the “Liquidity” section in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and under the “Business Risk” section in the Financial Instruments and Risk Management note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Available Information

The Company maintains a corporate website at www.footlocker-inc.com. The Company’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge through this website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our Corporate Social Responsibility disclosure is available to investors on our investor relations tab of our corporate website under the heading “Responsibility.” The Corporate Governance section of the Company’s corporate website contains the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, Committee Charters, and the Company’s Code of Business Conduct for directors, officers and employees, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer. Copies of these documents may also be obtained free of charge upon written request to the Company’s Corporate Secretary at 330 West 34th Street, New York, N.Y. 10001.

Item 1A. Risk Factors