ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

We are a world leader in sensor systems that enhance perception and awareness. We were founded in 1978 and have since become a premier designer, manufacturer, and marketer of thermal imaging and other sensing products and systems. Our advanced sensors and integrated sensor systems enable the gathering and analysis of critical information through a wide variety of applications in commercial, industrial, and government markets worldwide.

Our goal is to both enable our customers to benefit from the valuable information produced by advanced sensing technologies and to deliver sustained superior financial performance for our shareholders. We create value for our customers by improving personal and public safety and security, providing advanced intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, and tactical defense capabilities, facilitating air, ground, and maritime-based situational awareness, detecting electrical, mechanical and building envelope problems, displaying process irregularities, detecting volatile organic gas emissions, and enhancing advanced driver-assistance systems and autonomous driving solutions, as well as a variety of other uses of thermal and other sensing technologies. Our business model and range of solutions allow us to sell products to various end markets, including industrial, original equipment manufacturing, military, homeland security, enterprise, infrastructure, and environmental. We sell off-the-shelf products in configurations to suit specific customer requirements in an efficient, timely, and affordable manner, and support those customers with training and ongoing support and services. Centered on the design of products for low-cost manufacturing and high-volume distribution, our commercial operating model has been developed over time and provides us with a unique ability to adapt to market changes and meet our customers’ needs. 

International revenue accounted for approximately 45 percent, 47 percent and 47 percent of our revenue in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of revenue in the future. We have exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations and changing dynamics of foreign competitiveness based on variations in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies. Factors contributing to this variability include significant manufacturing activity in Europe, significant sales denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar, and cross currency fluctuations between such currencies as the United States dollar, euro, Swedish kronor and British pound sterling. The impact of those fluctuations is reflected throughout our consolidated financial statements, but in the aggregate, did not have a material impact on our results of operations in 2019.

We experience fluctuations in orders and sales due to seasonal variations and customer sales cycles, such as the seasonal pattern of contracting by the United States and certain foreign governments, the desire of customers to take delivery of equipment prior to fiscal year ends due to funding considerations, and the tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize annual capital budgets prior to expiration. Such events have resulted and could continue to result in fluctuations in quarterly results in the future. As a result of such quarterly fluctuations in operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance.

We expect that macroeconomic factors, including fluctuations in spending by United States government agencies, rate of GDP growth in certain geographic markets, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, will continue to impact our financial results and may render predictions regarding future performance difficult to make. In addition, in 2019 we successfully wrapped up several large multi-year programs that provided solid revenue contributions over the past several years. While we have successfully won significant new programs, these new programs require investments in research and development and compliance to be successful, and investments in these programs will not directly translate into corresponding revenue until late 2021 and beyond. 

We also selectively pursue the acquisition of businesses and investments at attractive valuations that will expand or complement our current portfolio and allow access to new customers or technologies. We also may explore the divestiture of businesses that no longer meet our needs or strategy or that could perform better outside of our organization. In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, ventures and equity investments.

We continue to build upon our strong market position, meeting the needs of our wide range of customers and are investing for long-term growth through the execution of our strategic priorities. To better position us to deliver long-term growth we launched a strategy-driven restructuring plan ("Project Be Ready") in February 2020. This initiative aims to simplify our product portfolio and better align resources with higher growth opportunities while reducing costs. We have discontinued certain non-core consumer centric product lines within the Outdoor and Tactical Systems business and, in February 2020, we committed to a plan to sell our Raymarine non-thermal maritime electronics business, subject to certain conditions of the proposed transaction and customary regulatory approvals. The business is being actively marketed and we intend to complete the sale within 2020. In addition, we will restructure our business units by consolidating from three business units to two by integrating the remaining businesses within the Commercial business unit into the Industrial business unit beginning in the first quarter of 2020. 

38

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our critical estimates on an on-going basis and base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions and differences could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We believe the following critical accounting policies and the related judgments and estimates are the most significant to the presentation of our consolidated financial statements and require the most difficult, subjective and complex judgments:

Revenue recognition. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09 and all the related amendments, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606)," which superseded all prior revenue recognition methods and industry-specific guidance. We design, market and sell products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products. Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that we offer. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We regularly enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price. The vast majority of our revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer. However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.

Revenue includes certain shipping and handling costs and is stated net of third-party agency fees. Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.

Our products are sold with warranty provisions that require us to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of our products over a specified period of time, generally twelve to twenty-four months, at no cost to our customers. Warranty liabilities are established at the time that revenue is recognized at levels that represent our estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements.

Provisions for estimated losses on sales or related receivables are recorded when identified. Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contract period, as is the case for extended warranty contracts, or recognized as services are provided.

Inventory. Our policy is to record inventory write-downs when conditions exist that indicate that our inventories are likely to be in excess of anticipated demand or are obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate the ability to realize the value of our inventories based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Purchasing requirements and alternative usages are evaluated within these processes to mitigate inventory exposure. When recorded, our write-downs are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventories to their net realizable value and establish a new cost basis. As of December 31, 2019, our inventories of $388.8 million are stated net of prior inventory write-downs. If actual demand for our products deteriorates or market conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional inventory write-downs may be required in the future.

Intangible Assets. We allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the underlying tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair values, with the excess recorded as goodwill. Such fair value assessments require judgments and estimates that can be affected by contract performance and other factors over time, which may cause final amounts to differ materially from original estimates. Adjustments to the fair value of purchased assets and liabilities after the initial measurement period are recognized in net earnings.

We recognize purchased intangible assets in connection with our business acquisitions at fair value on the acquisition date. The most significant purchased intangible assets recognized from our acquisitions are generally identifiable intangible assets. We 

39

determine the fair value of those intangible assets based on estimates and judgments, including the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. The expected future cash flows analyses are based on estimates of revenues growth, earnings and gross margin after considering such factors as general market conditions, customer budgets, existing firm and future orders, changes in working capital, long term business plans and recent operating performance. Selecting the appropriate growth rates requires significant judgment and usually are based on expected long-term rate of inflation, real economic growth and the anticipated industry growth and trends. We also use discounted cash flow analyses, which are based on significant judgments related to risk adjusted discount rates, terminal growth rates, and the weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”) and are developed by the management for planning purposes based on current known business and market conditions, macroeconomic indicators as well as future anticipated industry trends.

Intangible assets are amortized using the method that best reflects how their economic benefits are utilized, or, if a pattern of economic benefits cannot be reliably determined, are amortized using a straight-line methodology over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are evaluated annually for impairment, or more frequently if required when circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment exists when the carrying value is greater than the expected undiscounted future cash flows expected to be provided by the asset group. If impairment exists, the asset group is written down to its fair value. See Note 10, "Intangibles Assets" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information and discussion on impairment charges of $1.2 million recognized during the year ended December 31, 2019. The Company did not recognize any impairment charges on intangible assets during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Goodwill. Effective January 1, 2019, we adopted the requirements of ASU 2017-04, "Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment." Goodwill represents the excess purchase price of an acquired enterprise over the estimated fair value of identifiable net assets acquired. We assess goodwill for potential impairment at the reporting unit level during the third quarter of each year, or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may exceed their fair value. We may assess qualitative factors to make this determination, or bypass such a qualitative assessment and proceed directly to testing goodwill for impairment using a one-step process. As a result of the adoption of ASU 2017-04, if we determine that the goodwill is impaired, it is no longer required to compare the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill associated with the carrying amount of that goodwill, which is commonly referred to as Step 2.

We elect to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. When performing a qualitative assessment, we consider factors including, but not limited to, current macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, the competitive environment, changes in the market for our products and services, regulatory and political developments and entity specific factors such as strategies and financial performance and other events relevant to the entity or reporting unit under evaluation. If, based on our review of qualitative factors, it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, (of if we elected to bypass assessing the qualitative factors) we would perform a quantitative impairment test to identify goodwill impairment and measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recognized (if any) by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An impairment charge would be recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. 

Our impairment tests performed in the current year did not indicate an impairment of goodwill in any of our reporting units with the exception of our Outdoor and Tactical Systems ("OTS") reporting unit which is part of our Commercial Business Unit ("CBU") operating segment. Based on the assessment of qualitative factors in the fourth quarter, it was determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value was less than the carrying value for our OTS reporting unit. As such, a quantitative impairment test was performed that resulted in a goodwill impairment of $6.5 million recorded in the CBU operating segment during the fourth quarter. Refer to Note 9, "Goodwill" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further discussion. 

Contingencies. We are subject to the possibility of loss contingencies arising in the normal course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals and disclosures should be adjusted.

Income taxes. We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax basis of the assets and liabilities measured using the enacted tax rates in effect in the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances against deferred tax assets are recorded when a determination is made that the deferred tax assets 

40

are not more likely than not to be realized in the future. In making that determination, on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis, we estimate our future taxable income based upon historical operating results and external market data. Future levels of taxable income are dependent upon, but not limited to, general economic conditions, competitive pressures and other factors beyond our control. As of December 31, 2019, we have determined that a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets of $2.8 million is required. If we should determine that we may be unable to realize our deferred tax assets to the extent reported, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be recorded in the period such determination is made.

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions, and in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We record a benefit on a tax position when we determine that it is more likely than not that the position is sustainable upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. For tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained, we measure the tax position at the largest amount of benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized when it is effectively settled, using information that is available at the balance sheet date. We review our tax positions as circumstances warrant and update our liability for additional taxes as changes in available facts arise.

Consolidated Operating Results

The following table sets forth for the indicated periods certain items as a percentage of revenue:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______________ 

(1)Totals may not recompute due to rounding.

The following discussion of operating results provides an overview of our operations by addressing key elements in our Consolidated Statements of Income. The “Segment Operating Results” section that follows describes the contributions of each of our business segments to our consolidated revenue and earnings from operations for 2019, 2018 and 2017. Given the nature of our business, we believe revenue and earnings from operations (including operating margin percentage) are most relevant to an understanding of our performance at a segment level. Additionally, at the segment level we disclose backlog, which represents orders received for products or services for which a sales agreement is in place and delivery is expected within twelve months. Backlog is not an absolute indicator of future revenue because a portion of the orders in backlog could be canceled at the customer's discretion. 

Revenue. Consolidated revenue for 2019 totaled $1,887.0 million, an increase of 6.3 percent from 2018 revenue of $1,775.7 million. Year over year revenue increased primarily due to our Government and Defense business unit, which was partially offset by a decrease in our Commercial business unit. The increase in our Government and Defense business unit revenue was primarily driven by the acquisitions of Aeryon Labs, Inc. ("Aeryon") and Endeavor Robotics Holdings Inc. ("Endeavor") during the first 

41

quarter of 2019, coupled with volume increases of unmanned solutions and surveillance systems. The decline in our Commercial business unit revenue was a result of volume declines in the Outdoor and Tactical Systems ("OTS") business and the Maritime product lines during fiscal 2019. Further contributing to this decline was our divestiture of the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security business announced during the first quarter of 2018.

Revenue for 2018 totaled $1,775.7 million, a decrease of 1.4 percent over 2017 revenue of $1,800.4 million. Year over year revenue increased for our Industrial and Government and Defense business units but was offset by a decrease in our Commercial business unit. The decline in our Commercial business unit was a result of our divestiture of the SMB Security business during the first quarter of 2018 as noted above.

International revenue in 2019 totaled $849.8 million, representing 45.0 percent of revenue. This compares with international revenue in 2018 which totaled $841.2 million, representing 47.4 percent of revenue, and $844.0 million in 2017, representing 46.9 percent of revenue. While the sales mix between United States and international sales may fluctuate from year to year, we expect revenue from customers outside the United States to continue to comprise a significant portion of our total revenue on a long-term basis.

Cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was $957.5 million and $875.4 million, respectively. The increase was primarily driven by the Government and Defense business unit, mainly attributed to the acquisitions of Aeryon and Endeavor during the first quarter of 2019, coupled with volume increases of unmanned solutions and surveillance systems. These increases were partially offset by declines in our Commercial business unit as a result of volume declines in the OTS business (including $5.9 million of inventory write downs associated with the OTS restructuring) and in the Maritime product lines during fiscal year 2019 as well as the divestiture of the Consumer and SMB Security businesses during the first quarter of 2018.

Cost of goods sold in 2018 was $875.4 million, compared to cost of goods sold of $941.7 million in 2017. The decrease was primarily due to the decline in our Commercial business unit as a result of the Consumer and SMB Security business divestiture during the first quarter of 2018 as noted above.

Cost of goods sold includes materials, labor and overhead costs incurred in the manufacturing of products and services sold in the period as well as warranty costs. Material costs include raw materials, purchased components and sub-assemblies, outside processing and inbound freight costs. Labor and overhead costs consist of direct and indirect manufacturing costs, including wages and fringe benefits, operating supplies, depreciation and amortization, occupancy costs, and purchasing, receiving and inspection costs.

Gross profit. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $929.5 million compared to $900.3 million in 2018. Gross margin, defined as gross profit divided by revenue, decreased slightly from 50.7 percent in 2018 to 49.3 percent in 2019 primarily associated with the volume declines in the OTS business (including $5.9 million of inventory write downs associated with the OTS restructuring) as well as an increase in intangible asset amortization expense during fiscal year 2019.

Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $900.3 million compared to $858.8 million in 2017. Gross margin increased from 47.7 percent in 2017 to 50.7 percent in 2018 primarily due to favorable product mix. 

Research and development. Research and development expenses were $204.2 million, or 10.8 percent of revenue, in 2019, compared to $176.3 million, or 9.9 percent of revenue, in 2018, and $170.7 million, or 9.5 percent of revenue, in 2017. The increase in research and development expenses year over year in 2019 was primarily related to the inclusion of companies acquired in 2019 and our commitment to research and development. We intend to continue to have significant research and development expenses in the future to provide a continuing flow of innovative and high-quality products that maintain and enhance our competitive position in each of our business segments. We believe that future cash flow generation will be sufficient to support the development of new products that fuel the growth of the business. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $441.9 million, or 23.4 percent of revenue, in 2019 compared to $386.9 million, or 21.8 percent of revenue, in 2018 and $373.9 million, or 20.8 percent of revenue, in 2017. The increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses year over year in 2019 as compared to 2018 was primarily attributed to acquisition related expenses for acquisitions occurring in the first half of 2019, consent agreement related costs and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges related to restructuring actions. The increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses year over year in 2018 as compared to 2017 was primarily attributed to the $15.0 million recorded in the first quarter of 2018 for the costs of a regulatory settlement described in Note 15, "Contingencies" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 

42

Restructuring. We have various active restructuring programs focused on reorganization and discontinuation of certain businesses, targeted workforce reductions, and facility consolidation actions. During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recorded net pre-tax restructuring charges for these programs totaling approximately $10.1 million, $4.9 million and $0.6 million, respectively, which primarily represent employee termination benefits and costs to consolidate, relocate or discontinue operations. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2019 we have incurred goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges totaling approximately $6.5 million and $1.2 million, respectively related to the restructuring actions. Inventory write-downs associated with the restructuring actions were also incurred and totaled $5.9 million and $3.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Refer to Note 9, "Goodwill," Note 10, "Intangibles Assets," Note 6, "Inventories," and Note 22, "Restructuring " of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further discussion.

 Loss on sale of business. During the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded an estimated pre-tax loss on net assets reclassified as held for sale of $23.6 million. The loss on net assets held for sale was related to the planned divestiture of our Consumer and SMB Security business. During the year ended December 31, 2018, as a result of the divestiture, net working capital adjustments, and subsequent negotiations with the buyer, we recognized an additional pre-tax loss of $13.7 million. See Note 20, "Business Acquisitions and Divestitures," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information.

Interest expense. Interest expense totaled $27.7 million, $16.1 million and $16.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Interest expense for fiscal 2019 was associated with the $425.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes that were issued in June 2016 and interest on amounts drawn under our credit facility. Interest expense for fiscal 2018 was primarily associated with the $425.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes.

Other expense (income), net. Other expense totaled $6.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to other income of $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Other income totaled $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. The change in other (income) expense, net in 2019 over 2018 was primarily attributed to impairments of $4.1 million associated with our equity investments as well as minority investments losses. The decrease in other income, net in 2018 over 2017 was primarily attributed to increased losses on currency exchange rate fluctuations. 

 Income taxes. Our income tax provision was $70.3 million, $24.7 million and $171.8 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The effective tax rates for 2019, 2018 and 2017 were 29.1 percent, 8.0 percent and 61.6 percent, respectively. Our effective tax rate in 2019 was higher than the United States Federal tax rate of 21.0 percent mainly due to accruals for settlements with various taxing authorities, state taxes, additional withholding tax due on future distributions of foreign earnings included in the transition tax levied by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act"), and higher tax rates on income earned in foreign jurisdictions. These amounts were offset by tax credits generated in the United States and foreign jurisdictions as well as excess tax benefits from stock compensation. Our effective tax rate in 2018 was lower than the United States Federal tax rate of 21.0 percent mainly due to recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits relating to the European Union state aid recovery, excess tax benefits from stock compensation and a reduction in the accrual for the United States transition tax, offset partially by state taxes, higher tax rates applied to income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions, and other discrete items. Our effective tax rate in 2017 was higher than the United States federal tax rate of 35.0 percent mainly due to the Company's estimate of the impact of the Tax Act. Unrecognized tax benefits for intercompany pricing increased in various jurisdictions in 2017, but this was partially offset by excess tax benefits for stock compensation and the mix of lower foreign tax rates.

At December 31, 2019, we had United States tax net operating loss carry-forwards totaling approximately $9.4 million which expire between 2032 and 2039 and are subject to annual limitation under Section 382 of the US Internal Revenue Code. In addition, we have various foreign net operating loss carry-forwards totaling approximately $62.8 million, a portion of which expire between 2019 and 2039 and a portion of which have an indefinite carry-forward period. Tax benefits as described above are recorded as assets when the benefits are more likely than not to be recognized. To the extent that we assess the realization of such assets to not be more likely than not, a valuation allowance is required to be recorded. As of December 31, 2019, we have determined that a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets of $2.8 million is required, primarily related to foreign net operating losses and capital losses carried forward. A review of all available positive and negative evidence is considered, including past and future performance, the market environment in which we operate, utilization of tax attributes in the past, length of carry-back and carry-forward periods, and evaluation of potential tax planning strategies, when evaluating whether the deferred tax assets will be realized.

During the three-month period ending December 31, 2018, the Swedish Tax Authority (“STA”) issued a reassessment of tax for the year ending December 31, 2012 to one of the Company's non-operating subsidiaries in Sweden. The reassessment concerns the use of tax credits applied against capital gains pursuant to European Union Council Directive 2009/133/EC, commonly referred to as the EU Merger Directive, and assesses taxes and penalties totaling approximately $321.3 million (Swedish kroner 3.0 billion). 

43

The Company believes the STA’s assertions in the reassessment are not in accordance with Swedish tax regulations and plans to defend the Company's positions through the Swedish court system, as necessary. 

During the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, the European Commission announced the opening of a separate review to assess whether an excess profit tax ruling granted by Belgium to one of the Company's international subsidiaries is in breach of European Union state aid rules. The Company believes all taxes assessed by Belgium have been paid, and has not adjusted unrecognized tax benefits in relation to this matter.

Segment Operating Results

The three reportable operating segments are: Industrial business unit, Government and Defense business unit, and Commercial business unit. The following discusses the operating results of each of our segments for the three year periods ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Industrial

Industrial business unit operating results are as follows (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Industrial business unit revenue increased by 2.8 percent in 2019 compared to 2018. Earnings from operations increased by 11.1 percent in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase in revenue was predominately attributable to strong growth across the cooled cores product lines partially offset by declines in the Integrated Imaging Systems ("IIS") businesses. The increases in earnings from operations and corresponding operating margin were predominately attributable to favorable product mix led by the OEM business and productivity initiatives to improve manufacturing efficiency and decrease product costs across all divisions. The increase in backlog in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily attributed to a substantial award from a large aerospace and defense customer.

Industrial business unit revenue increased by 6.8 percent in 2018 compared to 2017. Earnings from operations increased by 8.5 percent in 2018 compared to 2017. The increase in both revenue and earnings from operations was predominately attributable to strong growth across the OEM automotive, cooled camera cores, and UAS product lines. The decline in backlog in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily attributed to productivity initiatives executed during the year to reduce lead times for customer deliveries of our machine vision and volume hand-held product lines. 

Government and Defense

Government and Defense business unit operating results are as follows (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Government and Defense business unit revenue increased by 19.8 percent in 2019 compared to 2018. Earnings from operations increased 3.9 percent in 2019 compared to 2018. Operating margin decreased 4.0 percent in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase in revenue and earnings from operations was primarily driven by the Aeryon and Endeavor acquisitions during the first quarter of 2019 and increased volumes of unmanned solutions and surveillance systems. The decline in operating margin was primarily due to the inclusion of the operating losses from the same acquisitions noted above. The increase in backlog in 2019 compared to 2018 

44

was primarily driven by the first quarter of 2019 acquisitions as noted above in addition to the timing of orders and subsequent timing of deployment of major programs.

Government and Defense business unit revenue increased by 5.5 percent in 2018 compared to 2017. Earnings from operations increased 11.5 percent in 2018 compared to 2017. The increase in revenue was predominately attributable to strong growth and favorable product mix primarily in the land vertical market. The increase in earnings from operations was primarily due to the revenue growth and favorable product mix changes along with controlled spending. Backlog was relatively flat year over year in 2018 compared to 2017. 

Commercial

Commercial business unit operating results are as follows (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Commercial business unit revenue decreased by 10.1 percent in 2019 compared to 2018. Earnings from operations decreased by 20.4 percent in 2019 compared to 2018. The decrease in both revenue and earnings from operations was attributed to volume declines in the OTS business and Maritime product lines during fiscal 2019. Further contributing to this decline was the divestiture of our Consumer and SMB Security business during the first quarter of 2018. Backlog was relatively flat year over year in 2019 compared to 2018. 

Commercial business unit revenue decreased by 21.0 percent in 2018 compared to 2017. Earnings from operations increased 2.4 percent in 2018 compared to 2017. The decrease in revenue was primarily due to the divestiture of our Consumer and SMB Security business during the first quarter of 2018, which contributed approximately $140 million of revenue in 2017, partially offset by increased revenues in our Maritime and Intelligent Traffic product lines. The increase in earnings from operations was primarily due to reductions in spending partially offset by reductions in gross margins related to the divestiture of our Consumer and SMB Security business.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

At December 31, 2019, we had a total of $284.6 million in cash and cash equivalents, $77.8 million of which was in the United States and $206.8 million at our foreign subsidiaries, compared to cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2018 of $512.1 million, of which $327.0 million was in the United States and $185.1 million at our foreign subsidiaries. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents in 2019 was primarily due to cash used for business acquisitions of $601.9 million, common stock repurchases of $125.0 million, dividend payments of $91.7 million, and capital expenditures of $44.8 million, partially offset by cash provided from operations of $370.4 million, net proceeds of $254.8 million from our revolving credit facility and long-term debt, and proceeds of $28.4 million from shares issued under our stock compensation plans.

Cash provided by operating activities in 2019 totaled $370.4 million compared to $374.2 million in 2018 and $308.3 million in 2017. The slight decrease in cash provided by operating activities in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to lower net earnings after adding back non-cash adjustments, partially offset by favorable changes in working capital. The increase in cash provided by operations in 2018 compared to 2017 was due to higher net earnings after adding back non-cash adjustments and favorable changes in other current balances, partially offset by changes in accrued income taxes. 

Cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 totaled $651.4 million, which primarily consisted of business acquisitions and capital expenditures in the ordinary course of business. Cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018 totaled $44.1 million, which primarily consisted of business acquisitions and capital expenditures in the ordinary course of business, partially offset by $25.9 million generated from the sale of our Consumer and SMB Security businesses. Cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 totaled $38.4 million, which primarily consisted of capital expenditures in the ordinary course of business.

45

Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 totaled $54.0 million, which primarily consisted of cash provided from net proceeds from our revolving credit facility and long-term debt, and net proceeds from shares issued under our stock-based compensation plans, partially offset by repurchases of shares of our common stock and the payment of quarterly dividends. Cash used by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018 totaled $318.9 million, which primarily consisted of repurchases of common stock and payment of dividends, partially offset by proceeds from share issuances pursuant to our stock plans. Cash used by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 totaled $132.6 million, which primarily consisted of repayment of borrowings under our revolving credit facility and the payment of quarterly dividends, partially offset by proceeds from share issuances pursuant to our stock-based compensation plans.

On February 8, 2011, we entered into a Credit Agreement (“Original Credit Agreement”) with Bank of America, N.A., U.S. Bank National Association, JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. and other Lenders. The Original Credit Agreement provided for a $200 million, five-year revolving line of credit. On April 5, 2013, the Original Credit Agreement was amended to extend the maturity of the revolving credit facility from April 8, 2016 to April 5, 2018, in addition to incorporating a $150 million term loan facility maturing April 5, 2019. On May 31, 2016, the Original Credit Agreement was further amended to increase the borrowing capacity to $500 million and to extend the maturity of the revolving credit facility from April 5, 2018 to May 31, 2021. The amendment also incorporated a revised schedule of fees and interest rates.

On March 29, 2019, we entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (“Restated Credit Agreement”) with Bank of America, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., U.S. Bank National Association, Citibank, N.A., MUFG Union Bank, N.A., and the other lenders party thereto. The Restated Credit Agreement amended and restated the Company's Original Credit Agreement, dated as of May 31, 2016. The Restated Credit Agreement provides for a $650.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, a $100.0 million unsecured term loan facility available in U.S. dollars amortizing at 5.000 percent per annum, and a $150.0 million unsecured term loan facility available in Swedish kronor amortizing at 5.000 percent per annum. The Restated Credit Agreement has a term of five years and matures on March 29, 2024. In connection with the closing of the Restated Credit Agreement, we made an initial borrowing of $100.0 million in revolving loans, $100.0 million in term loans in U.S. dollars, and the equivalent of $150.0 million in term loans in Swedish kronor. Additionally, we repaid in full all outstanding amounts, consisting of revolving loans in an aggregate principal amount of $375.0 million, under the Original Credit Agreement.

We have the right, subject to certain conditions, including approval of additional commitments by qualified lenders, to increase the availability under the revolving credit facility by an additional $200.0 million until March 29, 2024. The Restated Credit Agreement allows us and certain designated subsidiaries to borrow in United States dollars, European euros, Swedish kronor, British pound sterling, Japanese yen, Canadian dollars, Australian dollars, and other agreed upon currencies. Interest rates under the Restated Credit Agreement are determined from the type and tenor of the borrowing and includes loans based on the published term Eurocurrency rate (e.g. LIBOR) in which the loan is denominated. The Eurocurrency rate loans have a floor of zero percent and an applicable margin that ranges from 1.0 percent to 1.375 percent depending on the Company’s consolidated total leverage ratio. At December 31, 2019, the borrowing rate on the revolving loan was 3.049 percent per annum, the borrowing rate on the U.S. dollar term loan was 3.195 percent per annum and the borrowing rate on the Swedish kronor term loan was 1.348 percent per annum unadjusted for hedging. The Restated Credit Agreement requires us to pay a commitment fee on the amount of unused revolving commitments at a rate, based on our consolidated total leverage ratio, which ranges from 0.125 percent to 0.200 percent of unused revolving commitments. At December 31, 2019, the commitment fee on the amount of unused revolving credit was 0.175 percent per annum. The Restated Credit Agreement contains one financial covenant that requires maintenance of a consolidated total leverage ratio with which we were in compliance at December 31, 2019. The facilities available under the Restated Credit Agreement are unsecured. The Restated Credit Agreement also contains language providing for the adoption of a LIBOR successor rate consistent with market practice. We are engaged in regular dialogue with our lenders and derivatives counterparties to keep apprised of the proposed successor rates in each of the jurisdictions in which we may have a need to execute a financial transaction. Although progress has been made by the various working groups, we believe it is too early to accurately assess any financial impact of the LIBOR benchmark reform.

To manage the interest rate risk arising from the variability in interest expense attributable to amounts drawn under the Swedish kronor term loan facility, we entered into a floored interest rate swap with a Swedish kronor notional amount initially equivalent to $150.0 million. The interest rate swap was designated, and effective, as a cash flow hedge.

We had $10.8 million of letters of credit outstanding under the Restated Credit Agreement at December 31, 2019, which reduced the total availability under the revolving commitments under the Restated Credit Agreement.

In June 2016, we issued $425.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes due June 15, 2021 (the “Notes”). The net proceeds from the issuance of the Notes were approximately $421.0 million, after deducting 

46

underwriting discounts and offering expenses, which are being amortized over a period of five years. Interest on the Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on December 15 and June 15. The proceeds from the Notes were used to repay our 3.75 percent senior unsecured notes that were due September 1, 2016, and are being used for general corporate purposes, which include working capital and capital expenditure needs, business acquisitions, and repurchases of our common stock.

On February 8, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. This authorization expired on February 8, 2019. On February 7, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. This authorization will expire on February 7, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2019, approximately 2.5 million shares have been repurchased under the February 7, 2019 authorization. 

As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, we have accrued income tax liabilities of $37.1 million and $44.4 million, respectively, related to the transition tax, which was enacted in 2017 as part of tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"). The amounts accrued are paid in installments over an eight-year period and will not accrue interest. Due to prior year over payments, no amounts are due within the next twelve months.

As of December 31, 2019, we have undistributed earnings generated after January 1, 2018 by certain foreign subsidiaries of approximately $183.0 million that we intend to indefinitely invest outside the United States and on which we have not recognized deferred tax. Estimating the amount of potential tax is not practicable due to the complexity and variety of assumptions required. 

During the three-month period ending December 31, 2018, the Swedish Tax Authority (“STA”) issued a reassessment of tax for the year ending December 31, 2012 to one of the Company's non-operating subsidiaries in Sweden. The reassessment concerns the use of tax credits applied against capital gains pursuant to European Union Council Directive 2009/133/EC, commonly referred to as the EU Merger Directive, and assesses taxes and penalties totaling approximately $321.3 million (Swedish kroner 3.0 billion). The Company believes the STA’s assertions in the reassessment are not in accordance with Swedish tax regulations and plans to defend the Company's positions through the Swedish court system, as necessary. Consequently, no adjustment to the Company's unrecognized tax benefits has been recorded in relation to this matter. Management believes that the Company's recorded tax liabilities are adequate in the aggregate for its income tax exposures. 

During the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, the European Commission announced the opening of a separate review to assess whether an excess profit tax ruling granted by Belgium to one of the Company's international subsidiaries is in breach of European Union state aid rules. The Company believes all taxes assessed by Belgium have been paid and has not adjusted unrecognized tax benefits in relation to this matter.

We believe that our existing cash combined with the cash we anticipate generating from operating activities, and our available credit facilities and financing available from other sources will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the next twelve months. We do not have any significant commitments nor are we aware of any significant events or conditions that are likely to have a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of December 31, 2019, we do not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

Contractual Obligations

As of December 31, 2019, our contractual obligations were as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

47

Principal and interest on long-term debt, operating leases and licensing rights obligations are based upon contractual terms. Actual payments may differ in terms of both timing and amounts. We did not include approximately $254.5 million of standby letters of credit and performance bonds due to the unlikely event of payment, if any, of amounts under those arrangements.

The Company cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of potential cash settlement of its remaining unrecognized tax benefits of $20.8 million and, therefore, has not included the related unrecognized tax benefits in the table of contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019. For further detail on unrecognized tax benefits, see Note 16, "Income Taxes," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 1, "Nature of Business and Significant Accounting Policies," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.

48

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK