PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

Fortive Corporation is a diversified industrial technology growth company encompassing businesses that are recognized leaders in attractive markets. Our well-known brands hold leading positions in field solutions, product realization, sensing technologies, health, transportation technologies, and franchise distribution. Our businesses design, develop, service, manufacture and market professional and engineered products, software and services for a variety of end markets, building upon leading brand names, innovative technology and significant market positions. Our research and development, manufacturing, sales, distribution, service and administrative facilities are located in more than 50 countries across North America, Asia Pacific, Europe and Latin America.

We are guided by our shared purpose to deliver essential technology for the people who accelerate progress, and we are united by our culture of continuous improvement and bias for action that embody the Fortive Business System (“FBS”). Through rigorous application of our proprietary FBS set of growth, lean, and leadership tools and processes, we continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of innovation, product development and commercialization, global supply chain, sales and marketing and leadership development. Our commitment to FBS has enabled us to drive customer satisfaction and profitability, generate significant improvements in innovation, growth, and core operating margins. Additionally, FBS has enabled us to execute a disciplined acquisition strategy and expand our portfolio into new and attractive markets furthering our goal of creating long-term shareholder value.

On September 4, 2019, we announced our intention to separate into two independent, publicly traded companies subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including obtaining final approval from our Board of Directors. The separation would create (i) an industrial technology company, retaining the Fortive name, with a differentiated portfolio of growth-oriented businesses focused on connected workflow solutions that incorporate advanced sensors, instrumentation, software, data and analytics, and (ii) a global industrial company (“Vontier”) consisting of our Transportation Technologies and Franchise Distribution platforms 

2
with a focus on growth opportunities in the rapidly evolving transportation and mobility markets. The separation is expected to be structured in a tax-efficient manner and completed in the second half of 2020.

On October 1, 2018, we completed the split-off of businesses in our automation and specialty platform (excluding our Hengstler and Dynapar businesses) (the “A&S Business”) to our shareholders who elected to exchange shares of our common stock for all issued and outstanding shares of Stevens Holding Company, Inc. (“Stevens”), the entity we incorporated to hold the A&S Business. The split-off was immediately followed by the merger of Stevens with a subsidiary of Altra Industrial Motion Corp. (“Altra”). Concurrently with the split-off, we sold directly to Altra the remainder of the assets and liabilities of the A&S Business that were not otherwise contributed to Stevens.

Fortive Corporation is a Delaware corporation and was incorporated in 2015 in connection with the separation of Fortive from Danaher Corporation (“Danaher” or “Former Parent”) on July 2, 2016 as an independent, publicly-traded company, listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the “Danaher Separation”).

In this Annual Report, the terms “Fortive” or the “Company” refer to either Fortive Corporation or to Fortive Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires. Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts in this Annual Report refer to continuing operations.

Reportable Segments

Fortive is comprised of two reportable segments, Professional Instrumentation and Industrial Technologies, each of which is further described below. 

Professional Instrumentation

Our Professional Instrumentation segment offers essential products, software and services used to create actionable intelligence by measuring and monitoring a wide range of physical parameters in industrial applications, including electrical current, radio frequency signals, distance, pressure, temperature, turbidity, radiation, and hazardous gases. Furthermore, we offer products, software and services used to provide critical sterilization and disinfection solutions to advance health, safety and compliance. We also offer products that are used in the design, development, manufacturing, testing and advanced calibration of products for electronics and industrial markets. Product offerings include advanced sensors and instrumentation, cloud-based IoT solutions, temperature-sensitive sterilization and disinfection systems, vertical application workflow software, data and analytics to efficiently manage the full lifecycle of assets used in industrial, medical, educational, governmental, and commercial facilities. Customers for these products and services include industrial service, installation and maintenance professionals, designers and manufacturers of electronic devices and instruments, medical technicians and health professionals, safety professionals, commercial property owners, contractors, facility managers and other customers for whom precision, reliability, safety, compliance, integrated workflows and data analytics are critical in their specific applications.  

Our Professional Instrumentation segment consists of our Advanced Instrumentation & Solutions, Sensing Technologies, and Advanced Sterilization Products and Censis businesses. Our Advanced Instrumentation & Solutions business was primarily established through the acquisitions of Qualitrol in the 1980s, Fluke Corporation and Pacific Scientific Company in 1998, Tektronix and Invetech in 2007, Keithley Instruments in 2010, eMaint in 2016, Industrial Scientific and Landauer in 2017, Gordian and Accruent in 2018, Intelex and Pruftechnik in 2019 and numerous bolt-on acquisitions. In addition, both Advanced Sterilization Products and Censis were acquired in 2019. 

Advanced Instrumentation & Solutions

Our Advanced Instrumentation & Solutions business consists of: 

Field Solutions Our field solutions products include a variety of compact professional test tools, thermal imaging and calibration equipment for electrical, industrial, electronic and calibration applications, online condition-based monitoring equipment; portable gas detection equipment, consumables, and software as a service (SaaS) offerings including safety/user behavior, asset management, environmental, health and safety (EHS) quality management and compliance monitoring; subscription-based technical, analytical, and compliance services to determine occupational and environmental radiation exposure; and software, data analytics and services for critical infrastructure in utility, industrial, energy, construction, facilities management, public safety, mining, EHS, and healthcare applications. The instrumentation and sensing products and associated software solutions measure voltage, current, resistance, power quality, frequency, pressure, temperature, radiation, hazardous gas and air quality, among other parameters. Typical users of these products and software include electrical engineers, electricians, electronic technicians, safety professionals, medical technicians, network technicians, first-responders, and industrial service, installation and maintenance professionals. The business also makes and sells instruments, controls and monitoring and maintenance systems used by maintenance departments in utilities and industrial facilities to monitor assets, 

3
including transformers, generators, motors and switchgear. The business also provides physical resource management software with an integrated cloud-based framework for management of commercial property and facilities to extend the lifecycle of assets, facilitate regulatory compliance and reduce safety risks. In addition, the business provides subscription-based construction cost data, software and services for real estate construction and maintenance applications. Products are marketed under a variety of brands, including ACCRUENT, FLUKE, FLUKE BIOMEDICAL, FLUKE NETWORKS, GORDIAN, INDUSTRIAL SCIENTIFIC, INTELEX, LANDAUER, PRUFTECHNIK and QUALITROL.

Product Realization Our product realization services and products help developers and engineers across the end-to-end product creation cycle from concepts to finished products. Our test, measurement and monitoring products are used in the design, manufacturing and development of electronics, industrial, and other advanced technologies. Typical users of these products and services include research and development engineers who design, de-bug, monitor and validate the function and performance of electronic components, subassemblies and end-products. The business also provides a full range of design, engineering and manufacturing services and highly-engineered, modular components to enable conceptualization, development and launch of products in the medical diagnostics, cell therapy and consumer markets. Finally, the business designs, develops, manufactures and markets critical, highly-engineered energetic materials components in specialized vertical applications. Products and services are marketed under a variety of brands, including INVETECH, KEITHLEY, PACIFIC SCIENTIFIC, SONIX and TEKTRONIX.

Competition in the Advanced Instrumentation & Solutions business is based on a number of factors, including the reliability, performance, ruggedness, ease of use, ergonomics and aesthetics of the product, the service provider’s relevant expertise with particular technologies and applications, as well as the other factors described under “-Competition.” Sales in the business are generally made through independent distributors and direct sales personnel.

Sensing Technologies

Our Sensing Technologies business offers devices that sense, monitor and control operational or manufacturing variables, such as temperature, pressure, level, flow, turbidity, and conductivity. Users of these products span a wide variety of industrial and manufacturing markets, including medical equipment, food and beverage, marine, industrial, off-highway vehicles, building automation, and semiconductors. Our competitive advantage in these markets is based on our ability to apply advanced sensing technologies to a variety of customer needs, many of which are in demanding operating environments. Our modular products and agile supply chain enable rapid customization of solutions for unique operational requirements and which meet the lead-time needs of our customers. Competition in the business is based on a number of factors, including technology, application design expertise, lead time, channels of distribution, brand awareness, as well as the other factors described under “-Competition.” Products in this business are marketed under a variety of brands, including ANDERSON-NEGELE, GEMS and SETRA. Sales in the business are generally made through direct sales personnel and independent distributors.

Advanced Sterilization Products and Censis 

Our Advanced Sterilization Products (“ASP”) business provides critical sterilization and disinfection solutions, including low-temperature hydrogen peroxide sterilization solutions for temperature-sensitive equipment, to advance infection prevention and patient safety in healthcare facilities. Our Censis business provides subscription-based surgical inventory management systems to healthcare facilities to facilitate inventory management and regulatory compliance. Competition in these businesses is based on a number of factors, including technology, scope of integrated functionality and solutions to address a broader range of hospital workflows, reliability, installed base of customers, and brand awareness, as well as the other factors described under “-Competition.” Products in this business are marketed under a variety of brands, including ASP, CENSIS, CENSITRAC, EVOTECH, STERRAD, and ENDOCLENS. Sales in these businesses are generally made through direct sales personnel and independent distributors.

Manufacturing facilities of our Professional Instrumentation segment are located in North America, Europe and Asia.

Industrial Technologies

Our Industrial Technologies segment offers critical technical equipment, components, software and services for manufacturing, repair and transportation markets worldwide. We offer a wide range of products spanning advanced environmental sensors, fueling equipment, field payment, hardware, remote management and workflow software, vehicle tracking and fleet management software, signaling solutions for traffic light control and a range of tools for professional auto technicians and tire and wheel repair workshops. Products and services offered serve retail fueling operators, commercial auto-repair businesses, municipal governments and public safety entities and fleet owners/operators, globally. 

Our Industrial Technologies segment consists of our Transportation Technologies and Franchise Distribution businesses. Our Transportation Technologies business originated with the acquisition of Veeder-Root in the 1980s and subsequently expanded 

4
through additional acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Gilbarco in 2002, Navman Wireless in 2012, Teletrac in 2013, ANGI Energy Systems in 2014, Global Traffic Technologies in 2016, Orpak Systems in 2017 and numerous bolt-on acquisitions. Our Franchise Distribution business was established through the acquisitions of Matco Tools and Hennessy Industries in 1986.

Manufacturing facilities of our Industrial Technologies businesses are located in North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia.

Transportation Technologies

Our Transportation Technologies business is a leading worldwide provider of solutions and services focused on fuel dispensing, remote fuel management, point-of-sale and payment systems, environmental compliance, vehicle tracking and fleet management, and traffic management. This business consists of:

Retail/Commercial Fueling Our retail/commercial petroleum products include environmental monitoring and leak detection systems; vapor recovery equipment; fuel dispenser systems for petroleum and compressed natural gas; point-of-sale and secure and automated electronic payment technologies for retail petroleum stations; submersible turbine pumps; and remote monitoring and outsourced fuel management software as a service (“SaaS”) offerings, including compliance services, fuel system maintenance, fleet management software solutions, and inventory planning and supply chain support. Typical users of these products include independent and company-owned retail petroleum stations, high-volume retailers, convenience stores, and commercial vehicle fleets. Our retail/commercial petroleum products are marketed under a variety of brands, including ANGI, GASBOY, GILBARCO, GILBARCO AUTOTANK, ORPAK and VEEDER-ROOT.

Telematics Our telematics products include vehicle tracking and fleet management hardware and SaaS solutions that fleet managers use to position and dispatch vehicles, manage fuel consumption and promote vehicle safety, compliance, operating efficiency and productivity. Typical users of these solutions span a variety of industries and include businesses and other organizations that manage vehicle fleets. Our telematics products are marketed under a variety of brands, including TELETRAC NAVMAN.

Customers in this line of business choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including product features, performance and functionality, the supplier’s geographic coverage and the other factors described under “-Competition.” Sales are generally made through independent distributors and our direct sales personnel.

Franchise Distribution

Our Franchise Distribution business consists of:

Professional Tools We manufacture and distribute professional tools, toolboxes and automotive diagnostic equipment and software through our network of franchised mobile distributors, who sell primarily to professional mechanics under the MATCO brand. Professional mechanics typically select tools based on relevant innovative features and the other factors described under “-Competition.”

Wheel Service Equipment We produce a full-line of wheel service equipment including brake lathes, tire changers, wheel balancers, and wheel weights under various brands including the COATS brands. Typical users of these products are automotive tire and repair shops. Sales are generally made through direct sales personnel and independent distributors. Competition in the wheel service equipment business is based on the factors described under “-Competition.”

************************************

The following discussion includes information common to both of our segments.

Materials 

Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of raw materials, including electronic components, steel, plastics and other petroleum-based products, cast iron, aluminum and copper. Prices of oil and gas affect our costs for freight and utilities. We purchase raw materials from a large number of independent sources around the world. Tariffs affect our costs for impacted materials or components we import into the United States. No single supplier is material, although for some components that require particular specifications or qualifications there may be a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers that can readily provide such components. We utilize a number of techniques to address potential disruption in and other risks relating to our supply chain, including in certain cases the use of safety stock, alternative materials and qualification of multiple supply sources. During 2019 we had no raw material shortages that had a material effect on our business. For a further discussion of risks related to the materials and components required for our operations, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

5
Intellectual Property 

We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets and licenses to intellectual property owned by others. Although in aggregate our intellectual property is important to our operations, we do not consider any single patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or license to be of material importance to any segment or to the business as a whole. From time to time we engage in litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. For a discussion of risks related to our intellectual property, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” All capitalized brands and product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, Fortive.

Competition 

We believe that we are a leader in many of our served markets. Although our businesses generally operate in highly competitive markets, our competitive position cannot be determined accurately in the aggregate or by segment, since none of our competitors offer all of the same product and service lines or serve all of the same markets as we do. Because of the range of the products and services we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors, including well-established regional competitors, competitors who are more specialized than we are in particular markets, as well as larger companies or divisions of larger companies with substantial sales, marketing, research, and financial capabilities. We face increased competition in a number of our served markets as a result of the entry of competitors based in low-cost manufacturing locations, and increasing consolidation in particular markets. The number of competitors varies by product and service line. Our management believes that we have a market leadership position in most of the markets we serve. Key competitive factors vary among our businesses and product and service lines, but include the specific factors noted above with respect to each particular business and typically also include price, quality, performance, delivery speed, applications expertise, distribution channel access, service and support, technology and innovation, breadth of product, service and software offerings and brand name recognition. For a discussion of risks related to competition, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Seasonal Nature of Business

General economic conditions impact our business and financial results, and certain of our businesses experience seasonal and other trends related to the industries and end markets that they serve. For example, capital equipment sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter and sales to OEMs are often stronger immediately preceding and following the launch of new products. However, as a whole, we are not subject to material seasonality.

Working Capital

We maintain an adequate level of working capital to support our business needs. There are no unusual industry practices or requirements relating to working capital items in either of our reportable segments. In addition, our sales and payment terms are generally similar to those of our competitors.

Backlog

The following sets forth the unfulfilled orders and annual average contract value of signed contracts for our software as a service product offering attributable to each of our segments as of December 31 ($ in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We expect that a majority of the unfilled orders as of December 31, 2019 will be delivered to customers within two to three months of such date. Given the relatively short delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover that are characteristic of most of our products and the shortening of product life cycles, we believe that backlog in 2019 is indicative of short-term revenue performance but not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance. 

Employee Relations 

As of December 31, 2019, we employed approximately 25,000 persons, of whom approximately 13,000 were employed in the United States and approximately 12,000 were employed outside of the United States. Of our United States employees, approximately 900 were hourly-rated, unionized employees. Outside the United States, we have government-mandated collective bargaining arrangements and union contracts in certain countries, particularly in Europe where certain of our employees are represented by unions and/or works councils. The Company believes that its relationship with employees is good. 

6
Government Contracts 

Although the substantial majority of our revenue in 2019 was from customers other than governmental entities, each of our segments has agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities. As a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with governments and government-owned entities. For a discussion of risks related to government contracting requirements, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Regulatory Matters 

We face extensive government regulation both within and outside the United States relating to the development, manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of our products, software and services. The following sections describe certain significant regulations that we are subject to. These are not the only regulations that our businesses must comply with. For a description of the risks related to the regulations that our businesses are subject to, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Environmental Laws and Regulations

Our operations and properties are subject to laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including those governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management, and workplace health and safety. For a discussion of the environmental laws and regulations that our operations, products and services are subject to and other environmental contingencies, please refer to Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. For a discussion of risks related to compliance with environmental and health and safety laws and risks related to past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Export/Import Compliance

We are required to comply with various U.S. export/import control and economic sanctions laws, such as:

•the International Traffic in Arms Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, which, among other things, impose license requirements on the export from the United States of defense articles and defense services listed on the United States Munitions List;

•the Export Administration Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, which, among other things, impose licensing requirements on the export, in-country transfer and re-export of certain dual-use goods, technology and software (which are items that have both commercial and military or proliferation applications);

•the regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, which implement economic sanctions imposed against designated countries, governments and persons based on United States foreign policy and national security considerations; and

•the import regulations administered by U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

Other nations’ governments have implemented similar export/import control and economic sanction regulations, which may affect our operations or transactions subject to their jurisdictions. For a discussion of risks related to export/import control and economic sanctions laws, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

International Operations

Our products and services are available in markets worldwide, and our principal markets outside the United States are in Europe and Asia. We also have operations around the world, and this geographic diversity allows us to draw on the skills of a worldwide workforce, provides greater stability to our operations, allows us to drive economies of scale, provides revenue streams that may help offset economic trends that are specific to individual economies and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for products. In addition, we believe that our future growth depends in part on our ability to continue developing products and sales models that successfully target high-growth markets.

The manner in which our products and services are sold outside the United States differs by business and by region. Most of our sales in non-U.S. markets are made by our subsidiaries located outside the United States, though we also sell directly from the United States into non-U.S. markets through various representatives and distributors and, in some cases, directly. In countries with low sales volumes, we generally sell through representatives and distributors.

Major Customers 

No customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated sales in 2019, 2018, or 2017.

7
Available Information

We maintain an internet website at www.fortive.com where we make available free of charge our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with, or furnishing such material to, the SEC. Our internet website and the information contained on, or linked from, that website are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS