ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

(Dollars in millions, except per-share amounts or unless otherwise noted)

A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for 2019 compared with 2018 is presented below. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for 2018 compared with 2017 can be found in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

For an overview of our operating segments, including a discussion of our major products and services, see the Business discussion contained in Item 1. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT

With approximately 65% of our revenue from the U.S. government, government spending levels, particularly defense spending, influence our financial performance. Over the past several years, U.S. defense spending has been mandated by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA). The BCA establishes spending caps over a 10-year period through 2021, including a sequester mechanism that would impose additional defense cuts if an annual defense appropriations bill is enacted above the spending cap.

On August 2, 2019, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019 (BBA) was signed into law, which raised discretionary spending limits established by the BCA for fiscal year (FY) 2020 and FY 2021. On December 20, 2019, the FY 2020 defense appropriations bill was signed into law. It totaled $691 billion and included $619 billion in the base budget in compliance with the BBA spending caps and $72 billion for overseas contingency operations, representing an increase of approximately 3% over the total FY 2019 spending level.

The long-term outlook for our U.S. defense business is influenced by the U.S. military’s funding priorities, the diversity of our programs and customers, our insight into customer requirements stemming from our incumbency on core programs, our ability to evolve our products to address a fast-changing threat environment and our proven track record of successful contract execution.

International demand for military equipment and information technologies presents opportunities for our non-U.S. operations and exports from our North American businesses. While the revenue potential can be significant, there are risks to doing business in foreign countries, including changing budget priorities and overall spending pressures unique to each country.

In our Aerospace segment, we continue to experience strong demand across our product portfolio. We expect our investment in the development of new aircraft products and technologies to support the Aerospace segment’s long-term growth. Similarly, we believe the aircraft services business will be a source of steady revenue growth as the global business-jet fleet continues to grow.

28

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

INTRODUCTION

An understanding of our accounting practices is necessary in the evaluation of our financial statements and operating results. The following paragraphs explain how we recognize revenue and operating costs in our operating segments and the terminology we use to describe our operating results.

In the Aerospace segment, we record revenue on contracts for new aircraft when the customer obtains control of the asset, which is generally upon delivery and acceptance by the customer of the fully outfitted aircraft. Revenue associated with the segment’s custom completions of narrow-body and wide-body aircraft and the segment’s services businesses is recognized as work progresses or upon delivery of services. Fluctuations in revenue from period to period result from the number and mix of new aircraft deliveries, progress on aircraft completions, and the level and type of aircraft services performed during the period.

The majority of the Aerospace segment’s operating costs relates to new aircraft production on firm orders and consists of labor, material, subcontractor and overhead costs. The costs are accumulated in production lots, recorded in inventory and recognized as operating costs at aircraft delivery based on the estimated average unit cost in a production lot. While changes in the estimated average unit cost for a production lot impact the level of operating costs, the amount of operating costs reported in a given period is based largely on the number and type of aircraft delivered. Operating costs in the Aerospace segment’s completions and services businesses are recognized generally as incurred.

For new aircraft, operating earnings and margin are a function of the prices of our aircraft, our operational efficiency in manufacturing and outfitting the aircraft, and the mix of ultra-large-cabin, large-cabin and mid-cabin aircraft deliveries. Aircraft mix can also refer to the stage of program maturity for our aircraft models. A new aircraft model typically has lower margins in its initial production lots, and then margins generally increase as we realize efficiencies in the production process. Additional factors affecting the segment’s earnings and margin include the volume, mix and profitability of completions and services work performed, the volume of and market for pre-owned aircraft, and the level of general and administrative (G&A) and net research and development (R&D) costs incurred by the segment.

In the defense segments, revenue on long-term government contracts is recognized generally over time as the work progresses, either as products are produced or as services are rendered. Typically, revenue is recognized over time using costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion to measure progress toward satisfying our performance obligations. Incurred cost represents work performed, which corresponds with, and thereby best depicts, the transfer of control to the customer. Contract costs include labor, material, overhead and, when appropriate, G&A expenses. Variances in costs recognized from period to period reflect primarily increases and decreases in production or activity levels on individual contracts. Because costs are used as a measure of progress, year-over-year variances in cost result in corresponding variances in revenue, which we generally refer to as volume.

Operating earnings and margin in the defense segments are driven by changes in volume, performance or contract mix. Performance refers to changes in profitability based on adjustments to estimates at completion on individual contracts. These adjustments result from increases or decreases to the estimated value of the contract, the estimated costs to complete the contract or both. Therefore, changes in costs incurred in the period compared with prior periods do not necessarily impact profitability. It is only when total estimated costs at completion on a given contract change without a corresponding change in the contract value (or vice versa) that the profitability of that contract may be impacted. Contract mix refers to changes in the volume of higher- versus lower-margin work. Higher or lower margins can result from a 

29

number of factors, including contract type (e.g., fixed-price/cost-reimbursable) and type of work (e.g., development/production). Contract mix can also refer to the stage of program maturity for our long-term production contracts. New long-term production contracts typically have lower margins initially, and then margins generally increase as we achieve learning curve improvements or realize other cost reductions.

CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW

2019 IN REVIEW

•Record-high operating performance:

◦Revenue of $39.4 billion with growth in all of our segments.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

◦Net orders for Gulfstream aircraft increased over 57% from 2018 and reflected significant demand for the new G700 aircraft.

◦Several significant contract awards received in 2019 in our defense segments, including $22.2 billion for Block V of the Virginia-class submarine program in our Marine Systems segment, the largest shipbuilding contract in the U.S. Navy’s history.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our consolidated revenue increased 8.7% in 2019 driven by deliveries of the new G500 and G600 aircraft in our Aerospace segment and new contracts from the U.S. government for military vehicles in our Combat Systems segment and submarines in our Marine Systems segment.

Operating margin decreased in 2019 due primarily to the transition from mature products and contracts to newer ones, which typically have lower initial margins. 

REVIEW OF OPERATING SEGMENTS

Following is a discussion of operating results and outlook for each of our operating segments. For the Aerospace segment, results are analyzed by specific types of products and services, consistent with how the segment is managed. For the defense segments, the discussion is based on markets and the lines of products and services offered with a supplemental discussion of specific contracts and programs when significant to the results. Additional information regarding our segments can be found in Note S to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

30

AEROSPACE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Results

The increase in the Aerospace segment’s revenue in 2019 consisted of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Aircraft manufacturing revenue increased primarily from the initial deliveries of the new large-cabin G600 aircraft, which entered into service in the third quarter of 2019, and additional deliveries of the large-cabin G500 aircraft, which entered into service in the third quarter of 2018. The increase in aircraft services and completions revenue was driven by higher demand for maintenance work and the acquisition in the second quarter of 2018 of Hawker Pacific, a leading provider of aircraft services across the Asia-Pacific region and the Middle East. Additionally, we had fifteen pre-owned aircraft sales in 2019 compared with seven in 2018. 

The increase in the segment’s operating earnings in 2019 consisted of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Aircraft manufacturing operating earnings were up due to additional deliveries in 2019, driven by the introduction into service of the G600 and increased production of the G500. The growth in revenue outpaced the earnings growth due to lower margins associated with the G500, which are typical of a new aircraft model. We expect the operating margins associated with both the G500 and G600 to increase over time as manufacturing learning curve improvements are achieved.

Net G&A/other expenses were up in 2019 due to nonrecurring costs associated with a reduction in our employee workforce in the fourth quarter of 2019 related primarily to streamlining support and administrative functions. This increase was offset partially by lower R&D expense in 2019, which has been trending downward with the completion of the G500 and G600 aircraft test programs, offset partially by increased activities associated with the development of the new G700 aircraft model. In total, the Aerospace segment’s operating margin decreased 200 basis points to 15.6%.

31

2020 Outlook

We expect the Aerospace segment’s 2020 revenue to be around $10 billion with operating margin in the 15.7% to 15.8% range.

COMBAT SYSTEMS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Results

The increase in the Combat Systems segment’s revenue in 2019 consisted of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue was up across the Combat Systems segment in 2019. Revenue from U.S. military vehicles increased due primarily to higher volume on the Army’s Abrams M1A2 System Enhancement Package Version 3 (SEPv3) tank and new Mobile Protected Firepower (MPF) vehicle programs. Weapons systems and munitions revenue was up from increased volume on several products, including Hydra-70 rockets and other artillery for the Army and missile subcomponents. Revenue from international military vehicles increased on higher tank program volume. 

The Combat Systems segment’s operating margin decreased 120 basis points compared with 2018 driven by new contracts with initially lower margins in our U.S. military vehicles business and an unfavorable settlement in the first quarter of 2019 relating to a lease at a former operating site outside the United States.

2020 Outlook

We expect the Combat Systems segment’s 2020 revenue to be about $7.3 billion with operating margin of approximately 14.3%.

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

32

Operating Results

The increase in the Information Technology segment’s revenue in 2019 consisted of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue increased due to an additional quarter of CSRA volume as the business was acquired in the second quarter of 2018. This increase was offset partially by lower revenue in our federal civilian business as a result of the sale of the segment’s public-facing contact-center business in the fourth quarter of 2018 and other portfolio shaping following the CSRA acquisition. Revenue in our intelligence and homeland security business was lower due to the timing of completion of several legacy programs in 2018 versus the start-up of new programs. Operating margin increased 10 basis points compared with 2018 due largely to acquisition-related synergies.

2020 Outlook

We expect the Information Technology segment’s 2020 revenue to be between $8.4 and $8.5 billion with operating margin of approximately 7.6%.

MISSION SYSTEMS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Results

The increase in the Mission Systems segment’s revenue in 2019 consisted of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue was up across the Mission Systems segment in 2019. Increased volume on combat and seaframe control systems for the U.S. Navy’s Independence-variant Littoral Combat Ships (LCSs) and fire-control systems for the Navy’s submarine programs drove the increase in the naval, air and electronic systems business. Ground systems and products revenue was up due to higher demand for computing and communications equipment. The Mission Systems segment’s operating margin decreased slightly in 2019 due primarily to mix.

2020 Outlook

We expect the Mission Systems segment’s 2020 revenue to be between $5 and $5.1 billion with operating margin of approximately 14.1%.

33

MARINE SYSTEMS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Results

The increase in the Marine Systems segment’s revenue in 2019 consisted of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue from U.S. Navy ship construction was up due to higher volume on Block V of the Virginia-class submarine program, the Columbia-class submarine program and the Arleigh Burke-class (DDG-51) destroyer program, offset somewhat by lower Virginia-class Block III volume. Revenue from U.S. Navy ship engineering, repair and other services increased driven by a higher volume of surface ship repair work. These increases were offset partially by lower commercial ship construction volume at our NASSCO shipyard.

The Marine Systems segment’s operating margin decreased 50 basis points in 2019 due primarily to mix shift in our submarine and auxiliary ship workloads to newer contracts with lower initial margins.

2020 Outlook

We expect the Marine Systems segment’s 2020 revenue to be approximately $9.8 billion with operating margin of around 8.6%.

CORPORATE

Corporate operating results consisted of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Corporate operating results in 2018 included one-time transaction-related charges of approximately $45 associated with the costs to complete the CSRA acquisition. Excluding these charges, Corporate operating results have two primary components: pension and other post-retirement benefit income, and stock option expense.

We are required to report the non-service cost components of pension and other post-retirement benefit cost (e.g., interest cost) in other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. In our defense segments, pension and other post-retirement benefit costs are recoverable contract costs. Therefore, the non-service cost components are included in the operating results of these segments, but an offset is reported in Corporate. This amount exceeded our stock option expense in 2019 and 2018.

34

OTHER INFORMATION

PRODUCT AND SERVICE REVENUE AND OPERATING COSTS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in product revenue in 2019 consisted of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* C4ISR (command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance) solutions in our Mission Systems segment

Aircraft manufacturing revenue increased due primarily to the initial deliveries of the new large-cabin G600 aircraft and additional deliveries of the large-cabin G500 aircraft. Ship construction revenue increased due to higher volume on Block V of the Virginia-class submarine program, the Columbia-class submarine program and the DDG-51 destroyer program, offset a bit by lower commercial ship construction volume. Military vehicle production revenue increased due primarily to higher volume on the U.S. Army’s Abrams SEPv3 tank and new MPF vehicle programs. C4ISR products revenue was up due primarily to increased volume on combat and seaframe control systems for U.S. Navy surface ships and computing and communications equipment. Product operating costs increased at a higher rate than revenue due primarily to mix changes from mature programs to new production programs.

The increase in service revenue in 2019 consisted of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

IT services revenue increased due to the CSRA acquisition in the second quarter of 2018, offset partially by the sale of a public-facing contact-center business in our Information Technology segment in the fourth quarter of 2018. Service operating costs increased consistent with the change in volume described above.

G&A EXPENSES

As a percentage of revenue, G&A expenses were 6.1% in 2019 and 6.2% in 2018. We expect G&A expenses as a percentage of revenue in 2020 to be generally consistent with 2019.

35

INTEREST, NET

Net interest expense was $460 in 2019 and $356 in 2018. The increase was due primarily to the impact of financing the CSRA acquisition, including the issuance of $7.5 billion of fixed- and floating-rate notes in the second quarter of 2018. See Note K to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding our debt obligations, including interest rates. We expect 2020 net interest expense to be approximately $410, reflecting our next scheduled debt maturity of $2.5 billion in the second quarter of 2020.

OTHER, NET

Net other income was $14 in 2019 compared with expense of $16 in 2018. The 2018 expense included approximately $30 of transaction costs associated with the CSRA acquisition. Excluding these transaction costs, other represents primarily the non-service cost components of pension and other post-retirement benefits, which were net income items in both periods.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAX, NET

Our effective tax rate was 17.1% in 2019 and 17.8% in 2018. The decrease in our effective tax rate in 2019 is due primarily to increased R&D tax credits and favorable 2019 regulatory developments associated with implementing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (tax reform), which was enacted on December 22, 2017, and was generally effective in 2018. For further discussion, including a reconciliation of our effective tax rate from the statutory federal rate, see Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. For 2020, we anticipate a full-year effective tax rate of approximately 17.5%.

BACKLOG AND ESTIMATED POTENTIAL CONTRACT VALUE

Our total backlog, including funded and unfunded portions, was $86.9 billion on December 31, 2019, up 28.1% from $67.9 billion at the end of 2018. Our total backlog is equal to our remaining performance obligations under contracts with customers as discussed in Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Our total estimated contract value, which combines total backlog with estimated potential contract value, was $126.2 billion on December 31, 2019, up 22.1% from $103.4 billion at the end of 2018.

36

AEROSPACE

Aerospace funded backlog represents new aircraft and custom completion orders for which we have definitive purchase contracts and deposits from customers. Unfunded backlog consists of agreements to provide future aircraft maintenance and support services. The Aerospace segment ended 2019 with backlog of $13.3 billion compared with $11.4 billion at year-end 2018.

Orders in 2019 reflected strong demand across our product and services portfolio. We received orders for all models of Gulfstream aircraft, including additional orders for the G500, G600 and G650 aircraft and strong order activity for the new G700 aircraft, which is scheduled to enter service in 2022. The segment’s book-to-bill ratio (orders divided by revenue) was 1.23-to-1 in 2019.

Beyond total backlog, estimated potential contract value represents primarily options and other agreements with existing customers to purchase new aircraft and long-term aircraft services agreements. On December 31, 2019, estimated potential contract value in the Aerospace segment was $3 billion compared with $3.1 billion at year-end 2018. 

Demand for Gulfstream aircraft remains strong across customer types and geographic regions, generating orders from public and privately held companies, individuals, and governments around the world. Geographically, U.S. customers represented more than 50% of the segment’s orders in 2019 and approximately 45% of the segment’s backlog on December 31, 2019, demonstrating continued strong domestic demand.

DEFENSE SEGMENTS

Our total estimated contract value in our defense segments is comprised of the following components:

•Total backlog represents the estimated remaining sales value of work to be performed under firm contracts.

◦The funded portion of total backlog includes items that have been authorized and appropriated by the U.S. Congress and funded by customers, as well as commitments by international customers that are approved and funded similarly by their governments.

37

◦The unfunded portion of total backlog includes the amounts that we believe are likely to be funded, but there is no guarantee that future budgets and appropriations will provide the same funding level currently anticipated for a given program.

•Estimated potential contract value includes unexercised options associated with existing firm contracts and unfunded work on indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts. Contract options represent agreements to perform additional work under existing contracts at the election of the customer. We recognize options in backlog when the customer exercises the option and establishes a firm order. For IDIQ contracts, we evaluate the amount of funding we expect to receive and include this amount in our estimated potential contract value. This amount is often less than the total IDIQ contract value, particularly when the contract has multiple awardees. The actual amount of funding received in the future may be higher or lower than our estimate of potential contract value.

Total backlog in our defense segments was $73.6 billion on December 31, 2019, up 30.3% from $56.5 billion at the end of 2018 driven by the award of Block V of the Virginia-class submarine program from the U.S. Navy for the construction of nine submarines. Estimated potential contract value in our defense segments was $36.3 billion on December 31, 2019, up 12% from $32.4 billion at year-end 2018. 

COMBAT SYSTEMS

The Combat Systems segment’s total backlog was $14.9 billion at the end of 2019, compared with $16.6 billion at year-end 2018 as the segment continued to perform on many long-term contracts awarded in prior years. The segment’s backlog includes the work remaining on two significant multi-year contracts awarded in 2014:

•$3.5 billion to provide wheeled armored vehicles and logistics support to an international customer through 2024.

•$2.6 billion from the U.K Ministry of Defence to produce AJAX armored fighting vehicles scheduled for delivery to the British Army through 2024 and related in-service support.

38

The segment has a variety of additional international military vehicle production programs in backlog, notably:

•$1.3 billion from the Canadian government to produce armored combat support vehicles (ACSVs) and provide associated support services. 

•$525 to produce Piranha armored vehicles for several non-U.S. customers, including $215 to produce more than 300 armored personnel carriers for the Danish Defense Acquisition and Logistics Organization.

•$310 for LAVs for several non-U.S. customers, including $155 for the upgrade and modernization of LAV III combat vehicles for the Canadian Army. 

•$195 to upgrade Duro tactical vehicles for the Swiss government. 

One of the U.S. Army’s top priorities is readiness of its platform products through critical modernization efforts, including upgrades for both the Abrams main battle tank and Stryker wheeled combat-vehicle programs. These initiatives generated significant order activity for the segment in 2019.

The segment received $875 of orders for Abrams main battle tank modernization, upgrade and sustainment programs for the U.S. Army and U.S. partners in 2019, ending the year with backlog of $2.3 billion. For the Army, backlog included $1.4 billion to produce M1A2 SEPv3 tanks, deliver M1A2 SEP components, and provide associated program support, and $260 to design and develop SEPv4 prototypes with upgraded sensors. Backlog included $475 to modernize Abrams main battle tanks for U.S. partners. An additional $250 for Abrams tank programs is included in our estimated potential contract value at year end.

The Army’s Stryker wheeled combat-vehicle program represented $525 of the segment’s backlog on December 31, 2019, with vehicles scheduled for delivery through 2021. The segment received $400 of Stryker orders in 2019, including awards to upgrade vehicles with integrated short-range air defense capabilities and provide support and engineering services.

The backlog at year end also included $185 to develop and deliver 12 prototype vehicles for the Mobile Protected Firepower (MPF) program, which will increase the firepower for the Army’s Infantry Brigade Combat Teams (IBCTs).

The Combat Systems segment’s backlog on December 31, 2019, also included $2.7 billion for weapons systems and munitions programs, including $210 to produce Hydra-70 rockets for the Army.

The segment’s estimated potential contract value was $4.3 billion on December 31, 2019, up slightly from $4.2 billion at year-end 2018. 

39

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

The Information Technology segment’s backlog consists of thousands of contracts and task orders, and approximately 15-20% of its portfolio is recompeted each year. The segment’s total backlog was $9.1 billion at the end of 2019, up 14.7% from $8 billion at year-end 2018. This amount does not include $19 billion of estimated potential contract value associated with its anticipated share of IDIQ contracts and unexercised options on December 31, 2019, an increase of 11.4% from year-end 2018. Funding from IDIQ contracts and exercised options added $5.7 billion to the segment’s backlog in 2019, approximately 60% of the segment’s orders.

In 2019, the segment achieved a book-to-bill ratio of 1-to-1 or higher for the fifth consecutive year driven by several significant contract awards during the year, including the following:

•$1 billion from the U.S. Department of State to provide global security engineering and supply chain management services. The program has a maximum potential contract value of over $2 billion.

•$330 to provide operations and maintenance support services for a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) data center.

•$230 from the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) for network storage and data center services. 

•$215 from the U.S. Department of State to provide business process support services for the Bureau of Consular Affairs’ Global Support Strategy (GSS) program for visa services.

•$170 from the U.S. Air Force for the Battlefield Information Collection and Exploitation System (BICES) program to provide information sharing support to coalition operations.

The segment’s backlog at year-end 2019 also included the following key programs:

•$1.1 billion to support the operations and enhancement of several state health insurance programs, along with an additional $420 of estimated potential contract value. The segment received $885 of orders for these programs during the year.

40

•$830 to provide classified IT infrastructure services to an agency of the Department of Defense (DoD) with an additional $1.1 billion of estimated potential contract value remaining.

•$130 to provide turnkey training and simulation services for the U.S. Army’s Aviation Center of Excellence in Fort Rucker, Alabama. An additional $370 of estimated potential contract value remains under the contract.

MISSION SYSTEMS

The Mission Systems segment’s backlog consists of thousands of contracts and task orders. The segment’s total backlog was $5.4 billion at the end of 2019, up slightly from $5.3 billion at year-end 2018. This amount does not include $7.5 billion of estimated potential contract value associated with its anticipated share of IDIQ contracts and unexercised options on December 31, 2019. Funding of IDIQ contracts and exercised options added $2.3 billion to the segment’s backlog in 2019, over 45% of the segment’s orders.

In 2019, the segment achieved a book-to-bill ratio of 1-to-1 or higher for the fifth consecutive year driven by several significant contract awards during the year, including the following:

•$530 from the U.S. Army for computing and communications equipment under the CHS-5 program. $1.7 billion of estimated potential contract value remains under this IDIQ contract.

•$185 from the Army for its mobile communications network.

•$150 for design and logistics services to sustain the United Kingdom’s legacy Bowman tactical communication and information system.

The segment’s backlog at year-end 2019 also included the following key programs:

•$735 for the Canadian Maritime Helicopter Project (MHP) to provide integrated mission systems, training and support for Canadian marine helicopters.

•$495 for combat and seaframe control systems for the U.S. Navy’s Independence-variant LCSs.

•$250 to provide fire-control system modifications for ballistic-missile (SSBN) submarines.

•$155 to design and develop the next-generation tactical communication and information system in the initial phase of the United Kingdom’s Morpheus program.

41

MARINE SYSTEMS 

The Marine Systems segment’s backlog consists of very long-term submarine and surface ship construction programs, as well as numerous engineering and repair contracts. The segment’s book-to-bill ratio was 2.9-to-1 in 2019, resulting in backlog growth of 66.1% from $26.6 billion at year-end 2018 to $44.2 billion at the end of 2019. Estimated potential contract value was $5.5 billion on December 31, 2019, up 47.3% from $3.7 billion at year-end 2018. The increases in backlog and estimated potential contract value are due primarily to the award of Block V of the Virginia-class submarine program.

The Virginia-class submarine program was the company’s largest defense program in 2019 and the largest program in the company’s backlog. Backlog for the Virginia-class submarine program increased $18.1 billion from year-end 2018 driven by a $22.2 billion contract from the Navy in the fourth quarter of 2019 for the construction of nine submarines in Block V of the program and spare materials. The contract includes $3.2 billion of previously-awarded orders for advance materials, resulting in a net increase to backlog of $19 billion. The contract includes an option for a tenth submarine that if exercised would bring the total contract value to $24.1 billion.

For the Columbia-class ballistic-missile submarine, we are the designer and builder. The Navy considers this its top-priority program. Backlog on December 31, 2019, included $5 billion for design and prototype development, advance construction, and long-lead materials procurement. Construction of the lead boat is scheduled to begin in the fourth quarter of 2020.

The Marine Systems segment’s backlog on December 31, 2019, included construction of ESB auxiliary support ships. The segment has delivered five ships in the program, and construction is underway on the sixth ship. In 2019, the segment received a $1.1 billion award from the Navy for the design and construction of the sixth and seventh ships and an option totaling approximately $550 for an additional ship.

42

On December 31, 2019, the Marine Systems segment’s backlog included the following major ship construction programs:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Complementing these ship construction programs, ship and submarine maintenance, repair and other services represented approximately $1.5 billion of the Marine Systems segment’s backlog on December 31, 2019, including $1.2 billion for surface-ship repair operations.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We place a strong emphasis on cash flow generation. This focus gives us the flexibility for capital deployment while preserving a strong balance sheet to position us for future opportunities. Cash generated by operating activities in 2019 and 2018 was deployed to pay dividends, fund capital expenditures and business acquisitions, and repurchase our common stock.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as total debt divided by total equity as of year end.

(b)Debt-to-capital ratio is calculated as total debt divided by the sum of total debt plus total equity as of year end.

We expect to continue to generate funds in excess of our short- and long-term liquidity needs. We believe we have adequate funds on hand and sufficient borrowing capacity to execute our financial and operating strategy. The following is a discussion of our major operating, investing and financing activities in 2019 and 2018, as classified on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in Item 8.

43

OPERATING ACTIVITIES

We generated cash from operating activities of $3 billion in 2019 and $3.1 billion in 2018. The primary driver of cash inflows in both years was net earnings. However, cash flows in both years were affected negatively by growth in operating working capital (OWC), particularly the timing of payments on a large international wheeled armored vehicle contract in our Combat Systems segment. For additional information about the growth in our unbilled receivables balance, see Note H to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Cash flows in 2019 were also affected negatively by net OWC growth in our Aerospace segment driven by our position in the development, production and cash collection cycles of our Gulfstream aircraft models. Additionally, cash flows in 2018 reflected a discretionary pension plan contribution of $255.

INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Cash used for investing activities was $994 in 2019 and $10.2 billion in 2018. Our investing activities include cash paid for capital expenditures and business acquisitions; proceeds from asset sales; and purchases, sales and maturities of marketable securities.

Capital Expenditures. The primary use of cash for investing activities in 2019 was capital expenditures. Capital expenditures were $987 in 2019 and $690 in 2018. The increase reflects ongoing investments to support growth at our shipyards. We expect capital expenditures to be approximately 2.5% of revenue in 2020.

Business Acquisitions. In 2019, we acquired three businesses for an aggregate of approximately $20. In 2018, we acquired six businesses for an aggregate of $10.1 billion, including $9.7 billion for CSRA. 

Other, Net. Investing activities also include proceeds from asset sales. In 2019, we completed the sale of a business in our Information Technology segment that was classified as held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet on December 31, 2018. In 2018, we completed the sale of three businesses in our Information Technology segment: a commercial health products business, CSRA operations that we were required by a government customer to dispose of to address an organizational conflict of interest with respect to services provided to the customer, and a public-facing contact-center business.

FINANCING ACTIVITIES

Cash used by financing activities was $2 billion in 2019 compared with cash provided by financing activities of $5.1 billion in 2018. Our financing activities include payment of dividends, repurchases of common stock, and debt and commercial paper repayments. Net cash from financing activities also includes proceeds received from debt and commercial paper issuances and employee stock options exercises.

Dividends. On March 6, 2019, our board of directors declared an increased quarterly dividend of $1.02 per share, the 22nd consecutive annual increase. Previously, the board had increased the quarterly dividend to $0.93 per share in March 2018. Cash dividends paid were $1.2 billion in 2019 and $1.1 billion in 2018.

Share Repurchases. Our board of directors from time to time authorizes management’s repurchase of outstanding shares of our common stock on the open market. We repurchased 1.1 million of our outstanding shares for $184 in 2019 and 10.1 million shares for $1.8 billion in 2018. On December 31, 2019, 6.4 million shares remained authorized by our board of directors for repurchase, approximately 2% of our total shares outstanding.

44

Debt and Commercial Paper Issuances and Repayments. In 2019, we repaid $850 of commercial paper, resulting in no commercial paper outstanding on December 31, 2019, but we maintain the ability to access the commercial paper market in the future. In 2018, we issued $7.5 billion of fixed- and floating-rate notes to finance the acquisition of CSRA. Additionally, in 2018, we paid $450 to satisfy obligations under CSRA’s accounts receivable purchase agreement. 

Fixed- and floating-rate notes totaling $2.5 billion mature in May 2020. We currently plan to repay these notes using a combination of cash on hand and the issuance of commercial paper. For additional information regarding our debt obligations, including scheduled debt maturities and interest rates, and our credit facilities, see Note K to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

We have $5 billion in committed bank credit facilities for general corporate purposes and working capital needs and to support our commercial paper issuances. These credit facilities include a $2 billion 364-day facility expiring in March 2020, a $1 billion multi-year facility expiring in November 2020 and a $2 billion multi-year facility expiring in March 2023. We may renew or replace these credit facilities in whole or in part at or prior to their expiration dates. Our credit facilities are guaranteed by several of our 100%-owned subsidiaries. We also have an effective shelf registration on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows us to access the debt markets.

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

We emphasize the efficient conversion of net earnings into cash and the deployment of that cash to maximize shareholder returns. As described below, we use free cash flow from operations and return on invested capital (ROIC) to measure our performance in these areas. While we believe these metrics provide useful information, they are not defined operating measures under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and there are limitations associated with their use. Our calculation of these metrics may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the method of calculation. As a result, the use of these metrics should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, other GAAP measures.

Free Cash Flow. We define free cash flow from operations as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. We believe free cash flow from operations is a useful measure for investors because it portrays our ability to generate cash from our businesses for purposes such as repaying maturing debt, funding business acquisitions, repurchasing our common stock and paying dividends. We use free cash flow from operations to assess the quality of our earnings and as a key performance measure in evaluating management. The following table reconciles the free cash flow from operations with net cash provided by operating activities, as classified on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in Item 8:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

45

Return on Invested Capital. We believe ROIC is a useful measure for investors because it reflects our ability to generate returns from the capital we have deployed in our operations. We use ROIC to evaluate investment decisions and as a performance measure in evaluating management. We define ROIC as net operating profit after taxes divided by average invested capital. Net operating profit after taxes is defined as earnings from continuing operations plus after-tax interest and amortization expense, calculated using the statutory federal income tax rate. Average invested capital is defined as the sum of the average debt and shareholders’ equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive loss. ROIC excludes goodwill impairments and non-economic accounting changes as they are not reflective of company performance.

ROIC is calculated as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

On December 31, 2019, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS

The following tables present information about our contractual obligations and commercial commitments on December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes scheduled interest payments. See Note K to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of long-term debt.

(b)Includes amounts committed under legally enforceable agreements for goods and services with defined terms as to quantity, price and timing of delivery. This amount includes $34.8 billion of purchase obligations for products and services to be delivered under firm government contracts under which we would expect full recourse under normal contract termination clauses.

(c)Represents other long-term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, including the current portion of these liabilities. The projected timing of cash flows associated with these obligations is based on management’s estimates, which are based largely on historical experience. This amount also includes all liabilities under our defined-benefit retirement plans. See Note R to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for information regarding these liabilities and the plan assets available to satisfy them.

46

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* See Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of letters of credit and aircraft trade-in options.

APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates including most pervasively those related to various assumptions and projections for our long-term contracts and programs. Other significant estimates include those related to goodwill and intangible assets, income taxes, pension and other post-retirement benefits, workers’ compensation, warranty obligations and litigation contingencies. We employ judgment in making our estimates, but they are based on historical experience, currently available information and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe our judgment is applied consistently and produces financial information that fairly depicts the results of operations for all periods presented. 

In our opinion, the following policies are critical and require the use of significant judgment in their application:

Revenue. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer, and is the unit of account for revenue. A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation within that contract and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. Our performance obligations are satisfied over time as work progresses or at a point in time.

Substantially all of our revenue in the defense segments is recognized over time, because control is transferred continuously to our customers. Typically, revenue is recognized over time using costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion to measure progress toward satisfying our performance obligations. Incurred cost represents work performed, which corresponds with, and thereby best depicts, the transfer of control to the customer. Contract costs include labor, material, overhead and, when appropriate, G&A expenses.

The majority of our revenue recognized at a point in time is for the manufacture of business-jet aircraft in our Aerospace segment. Revenue on these contracts is recognized when the customer obtains control of the asset, which is generally upon delivery and acceptance by the customer of the fully outfitted aircraft.

The majority of our revenue is derived from long-term contracts and programs that can span several years. Accounting for long-term contracts and programs involves the use of various techniques to estimate total contract revenue and costs. For long-term contracts, we estimate the profit on a contract as the difference 

47

between the total estimated revenue and expected costs to complete a contract and recognize that profit over the life of the contract.

Contract estimates are based on various assumptions to project the outcome of future events that often span several years. These assumptions include labor productivity and availability; the complexity of the work to be performed; the cost and availability of materials; the performance of subcontractors; and the availability and timing of funding from the customer.

The nature of our contracts gives rise to several types of variable consideration, including claims and award and incentive fees. We include in our contract estimates additional revenue for submitted contract modifications or claims against the customer when we believe we have an enforceable right to the modification or claim, the amount can be estimated reliably and its realization is probable. In evaluating these criteria, we consider the contractual/legal basis for the claim, the cause of any additional costs incurred, the reasonableness of those costs and the objective evidence available to support the claim. We include award or incentive fees in the estimated transaction price when there is a basis to reasonably estimate the amount of the fee. These estimates are based on historical award experience, anticipated performance and our best judgment at the time. Because of our certainty in estimating these amounts, they are included in the transaction price of our contracts and the associated remaining performance obligations.

As a significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of our contracts, we review and update our contract-related estimates regularly. We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts under the cumulative catch-up method. Under this method, the impact of the adjustment on profit recorded to date on a contract is recognized in the period the adjustment is identified. Revenue and profit in future periods of contract performance are recognized using the adjusted estimate. The aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our operating earnings (and diluted earnings per share) by $271 ($0.74) in 2019 and $345 ($0.91) in 2018. No adjustment on any one contract was material to our Consolidated Financial Statements in 2019 or 2018.

Consistent with industry practice, we classify assets and liabilities related to long-term contracts as current, even though some of these amounts may not be realized within one year. The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled receivables (contract assets), and customer advances and deposits (contract liabilities) on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. These assets and liabilities are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.

Long-lived Assets and Goodwill. We review long-lived assets, including intangible assets subject to amortization, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. We assess the recoverability of the carrying value of assets held for use based on a review of undiscounted projected cash flows. Impairment losses, where identified, are measured as the excess of the carrying value of the long-lived asset over its estimated fair value as determined by discounted projected cash flows.

Goodwill represents the purchase price paid in excess of the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired in a business combination. We review goodwill for impairment annually at each of our reporting units or when circumstances indicate that the likelihood of an impairment is greater than 50%. Such circumstances include a significant adverse change in the business climate for one of our reporting units or a decision to dispose of a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit. Our reporting units are consistent with our operating segments in Note S to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. We use both qualitative and quantitative approaches when testing goodwill for impairment. When determining the approach to be used, we consider the current facts and circumstances of each reporting 

48

unit as well as the excess of each reporting unit’s estimated fair value over its carrying value based on our most recent quantitative assessments. Our qualitative approach evaluates the business environment and various events impacting the reporting unit including, but not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, changes in the business environment and reporting unit-specific events. If, based on the qualitative assessment, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying value, then a quantitative assessment is not necessary. However, if a quantitative assessment is determined to be necessary, we use a two-step process to first identify potential goodwill impairment for a reporting unit by comparing its fair value to its carrying value and then, if necessary, measure the amount of the impairment loss. 

Our estimate of fair value is based primarily on the discounted projected cash flows of the underlying operations and requires the use of judgment by management. The process requires numerous assumptions, including the timing of work embedded in our backlog, our performance and profitability under our contracts, our success in securing future business, the appropriate risk-adjusted interest rate used to discount the projected cash flows, and terminal value growth rates applied to the final year of projected cash flows. Due to the variables inherent in our estimates of fair value, differences in assumptions may have a material effect on the result of our impairment analysis. To assess the reasonableness of our discounted projected cash flows, we compare the sum of our reporting units’ fair value to our market capitalization and calculate an implied control premium (the excess of the market capitalization over the sum of the reporting units’ fair values). Additionally, we evaluate the reasonableness of each reporting unit’s fair value by comparing the fair value to comparable peer companies and recent comparable market transactions.

As of December 31, 2019, we completed qualitative assessments for our Aerospace, Combat Systems, Mission Systems and Marine Systems reporting units as the estimated fair values of each of these reporting units significantly exceeded the respective carrying values based on our most recent quantitative assessments, which were performed as of December 31, 2018. Our qualitative assessments did not present indicators of impairment for these reporting units as of December 31, 2019. 

As of December 31, 2019, we completed a quantitative assessment for our Information Technology reporting unit, and the results indicated that no impairment existed. The Information Technology reporting unit’s estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 25%, reflecting the size of the CSRA acquisition relative to the Information Technology reporting unit and its recent acquisition date. Given that the net book value of this business was recorded at its fair value at the acquisition date in 2018, the reporting unit’s carrying value, by default, continues to closely approximate its fair value as of December 31, 2019. As the carrying value and fair value of the Information Technology reporting unit are closely aligned, a material change in the fair value or carrying value could put the reporting unit at risk of goodwill impairment. For example, if the synergies from the acquisition or funding in the U.S. government budget for our contracts fall significantly below our projections, the fair value of the reporting unit would be negatively impacted. Similarly, an increase in interest rates would lower our discounted cash flows and negatively impact the fair value of the reporting unit. We believe the projections and assumptions we used in estimating fair value are reasonable, but it is possible actual experience could differ, impacting our fair value estimate.

Commitments and Contingencies. We are subject to litigation and other legal proceedings arising either from the normal course of business or under provisions relating to the protection of the environment. Estimating liabilities and costs associated with these matters requires the use of judgment. We record a charge against earnings when a liability associated with claims or pending or threatened litigation is probable and when our exposure is reasonably estimable. The ultimate resolution of our exposure related to these matters may change as further facts and circumstances become known.

49

Other Contract Costs. Other contract costs represent amounts that are not currently allocable to government contracts, such as a portion of our estimated workers’ compensation obligations, other insurance-related assessments, pension and other post-retirement benefits, and environmental expenses. These costs will become allocable to contracts generally after they are paid. We have elected to defer these costs in other current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet until they can be allocated to contracts. We expect to recover these costs through ongoing business, including existing backlog and probable follow-on contracts. We regularly assess the probability of recovery of these costs. This assessment requires that we make assumptions about future contract costs, the extent of cost recovery under our contracts and the amount of future contract activity. These estimates are based on our best judgment. If the backlog in the future does not support the continued deferral of these costs, the profitability of our remaining contracts could be adversely affected.

Retirement Plans. Our defined-benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit costs and obligations depend on several assumptions and estimates. The key assumptions include interest rates used to discount estimated future liabilities and projected long-term rates of return on plan assets. We base the discount rates on a current yield curve developed from a portfolio of high-quality, fixed-income investments with maturities consistent with the projected benefit payout period. We use the spot rate approach to identify individual spot rates along the yield curve that correspond with the timing of each projected service cost and discounted benefit obligation payment.

We determine the long-term rates of return on assets based on consideration of historical and forward-looking returns and the current and expected asset allocation strategy. For 2019, we decreased the expected long-term rates of return on assets in our primary U.S. other post-retirement benefit plans by 100 basis points, following an assessment of the historical and expected long-term returns of our various asset classes. 

These retirement plan assumptions are based on our best judgment, including consideration of current and future market conditions. In the event any of the assumptions change, pension and other post-retirement benefit cost could increase or decrease. For further discussion about our retirement plan assumptions, see Note R to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

As discussed under Other Contract Costs, our contractual arrangements with the U.S. government provide for the recovery of benefit costs for our government retirement plans. We have elected to defer recognition of the benefit costs until such costs can be allocated to contracts. Therefore, the impact of annual changes in financial reporting assumptions on the retirement benefit cost for these plans does not immediately affect our operating results.

Accounting Standards Updates. See Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for information regarding accounting standards we adopted in 2019 and other new accounting standards that have been issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) but are not effective until after December 31, 2019. 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK