PART I

Item 1.Business

Company Overview

Hanesbrands Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Hanesbrands,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company”) is a socially responsible leading marketer of everyday basic innerwear and activewear apparel in the Americas, Europe, Australia and Asia/Pacific under some of the world’s strongest apparel brands, including Hanes, Champion, Bonds, DIM, Maidenform, Bali, Playtex, Lovable, Bras N Things, Nur Die/Nur Der, Alternative, L’eggs, JMS/Just My Size, Wonderbra, Berlei and Gear for Sports.

Hanesbrands is a diverse, global apparel company that operates a portfolio of profitable businesses. Our products are marketed to consumers shopping in mass merchants, mid-tier and department stores, specialty stores and the consumer-directed channel, which includes our owned retail locations, as well as e-commerce sites.

Unlike most apparel companies, Hanesbrands primarily operates its own manufacturing facilities. Approximately 70% of the apparel units that we sell are manufactured in our own plants or those of dedicated contractors. We have a long history of innovation, product excellence and brand recognition, and we continue to use our Innovate-to-Elevate strategy to integrate our brand superiority, industry-leading innovation and low-cost global supply chain to provide higher value products while lowering production costs. Our Tagless apparel platform, Comfort Flex Fit apparel platform, ComfortBlend fabric platform, temperature-control X-Temp fabric platform, FreshIQ advanced odor protection technology fabric platform, SmoothTec fabric technology, Cool Comfort fabric technology and DreamWire underwire technology incorporate big-idea innovation to span across brands, product categories, business segments, retailer and distribution channels and geographies.

We take great pride in our strong reputation for ethical business practices and the success of our Hanes for Good corporate responsibility program for community and environmental improvement. Hanesbrands has earned a leadership level A- score for two consecutive years in the CDP Climate Change Report and has been a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Energy Star Sustained Excellence Award winner for ten consecutive years. We are committed to the responsible management of energy, carbon emissions, water, wastewater, chemicals, solid waste and recycled materials in all of our facilities worldwide, and we report our progress annually. We are also a recognized leader for our community-building, philanthropy and workplace practices. More information about our Hanes for Good corporate responsibility initiatives may be found at www.HanesForGood.com.

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. All references to “2019”, “2018” and “2017” relate to the 52 week fiscal years ended on December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively. 

We make available copies of materials we file with, or furnish to, the SEC free of charge at www.Hanes.com/investors (in the “Investors” section). By referring to our corporate website, www.Hanes.com/corporate, or any of our other websites, we do not incorporate any such website or its contents into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

1
Our Brands

Our portfolio of leading brands is designed to address the needs and wants of various consumer segments across a broad range of basic apparel products. Each of our brands has a unique consumer positioning that distinguishes it from its competitors and guides its advertising and product development. We discuss some of our most important brands in more detail below.

Hanes is the largest and most widely recognized brand in our portfolio. Hanes is the number one selling apparel brand in the United States and is found in nine out of 10 U.S. households. The Hanes brand covers all of our product categories, including men’s underwear, women’s panties, children’s underwear, bras, socks, T-shirts, fleece, shapewear and sheer hosiery. Hanes stands for outstanding comfort, style and value. Hanes is one of the most widely distributed brands in apparel, with a presence across mass merchandise retailers, e-commerce sites, discount stores and department stores. Through collaborations with third parties, the brand has also gained distribution with specialty retailers like Supreme and Urban Outfitters and in high-end retail establishments like Nordstrom and Bloomingdales.

Champion is our second-largest brand. Founded in Rochester, New York in 1919, Champion has always been known for authentic American style and performance and helped pioneer some of the most important innovations in athleticwear, including reverse weave sweatshirts, mesh practice uniforms and sports bras. Champion athleticwear can be found in sporting goods retailers, e-commerce sites, department stores, college bookstores and specialty retailers, including Urban Outfitters, Zumiez and PacSun. In addition, Champion has collaborated with designers and other iconic brands around the world, including Coca-Cola, Dr. Seuss, Todd Snyder, Supreme, Off-White and Beams. The Champion brand’s momentum has been fueled by distribution growth and expansion of Champion retail stores across the United States, Europe and Asia. We believe the Champion brand continues to be a powerful global growth platform for Hanesbrands.

Our global portfolio includes two other megabrands with strong heritage and deep household penetration in their respective markets. The Bonds brand is over a century-old and is the number one brand of men’s underwear, women’s underwear, children’s underwear, socks and babywear in Australia. DIM is a flagship European brand and a mass market leader in hosiery, men’s underwear, intimate apparel and socks in France.

Our portfolio also includes a number of iconic intimate apparel brands. Maidenform is America’s number one shapewear brand and has been trusted for stylish, modern bras, panties and shapewear since 1922. Bali offers a range of bras, panties and shapewear sold in the department store channel and is the number one bra brand in U.S. department stores. Playtex is the leading full-figure wirefree support bra brand in the United States and is sold everywhere from mass merchandise retailers to department stores. 

In addition, we offer a variety of products under the following well-known brands: Lovable, Bras N Things, Nur Die/Nur Der, Alternative, L’eggs, JMS/Just My Size, Wonderbra, Berlei, and Gear for Sports. 

These brands complement our primary product offerings, allowing us to give consumers a variety of options to meet their diverse needs.

Our Segments

Our operations are managed and reported in three operating segments, each of which is a reportable segment for financial reporting purposes: Innerwear, Activewear and International. These segments are organized principally by product category and geographic location. Each segment has its own management team that is responsible for the operations of the segment’s businesses, but the segments share a common supply chain and media and marketing platforms.

2
The following table summarizes our operating segments by product category:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Brand used under a license agreement.

Innerwear

Our Innerwear segment includes core apparel products, such as men’s underwear, women’s panties, children’s underwear, socks and intimate apparel, sold in the United States, under well-known brands that are trusted by consumers. We are the intimate apparel category leader in the United States with our Hanes, Bali, Maidenform, Playtex, and JMS/Just My Size brands, and we are also the leading manufacturer and marketer of men’s underwear and children’s underwear in the United States under the Hanes, Champion and Polo Ralph Lauren brands. During 2019, net sales from our Innerwear segment were $2.3 billion, representing approximately 33% of total net sales.

Activewear

Our Activewear segment includes activewear products, such as T-shirts, fleece, performance apparel, sport shirts and thermals, sold in the United States. We are a leader in the activewear market through our Champion, Hanes, Alternative, and JMS/Just My Size brands, where we sell products such as T-shirts and fleece to both retailers and wholesalers. We also license our Champion name for footwear and sports accessories. In 2017, we expanded our activewear offerings with the acquisition of the Alternative brand, a better basics lifestyle brand for men and women as we continue our shift to higher margin products. In our American Casualwear business, we supply our T-shirts, sport shirts and fleece products, including brands such as Hanes, Champion, Alternative and Hanes Beefy-T, to customers, primarily wholesalers, who then resell to the embellishment channel, and the consumer-directed channel. We sell licensed logo apparel in the mass retail channel and in collegiate bookstores and other channels under our Champion, Gear for Sports, Knights Apparel and Alternative Apparel brands. During 2019, net sales from our Activewear segment were $1.9 billion, representing approximately 27% of total net sales.

International

Our International segment includes innerwear, activewear, hosiery and home goods products, sold outside of the United States, that are primarily marketed under the Champion, Bonds, DIM, Sheridan, Lovable, Bras N Things, Hanes, Nur Die/Nur Der, Playtex, Wonderbra, Berlei, Maidenform, Abanderado, Rinbros, Shock Absorber, Explorer, Zorba, Sol y Oro, Polo Ralph Lauren, and Bellinda brands. Our Innerwear brands are market leaders across Australia and Western and Central Europe. In the intimate apparel category, we hold the number one market share in Australia and the number two market share in France and Italy. We are also the category leader in men’s underwear in Australia, France and Spain, and in hosiery in France and Germany. During 2019, net sales from our International segment were $2.5 billion, representing approximately 36% of total net sales and included sales primarily in Europe, Australasia, Asia, Latin America, Canada, the Middle East and Africa. Our largest international markets are Europe, Australasia, Japan, Canada, China, Mexico and South Korea.

3
The following table summarizes our brands and product categories sold within each international region:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Brand used under a license agreement.

Customers and Distribution Channels

Our products are distributed through two main channels: indirectly through our third-party brick-and-mortar wholesale customers and directly through consumer-directed sales. Third-party brick-and-mortar wholesale revenue is primarily generated by sales of our products to retailers to support their brick-and-mortar operations, as well as by royalty revenue from licensing agreements. Consumer-directed revenue is primarily generated by sales to individual consumers through our own stores or e-commerce platforms, which include both our owned sites and the sites of our retail customers. In 2019, approximately 76% of our total net sales were to third-party brick-and-mortar customers and 24% of our total net sales were consumer-directed. 

In 2019, approximately 64% of our total net sales were in the United States and approximately 36% were outside the United States. Within the United States, approximately 82% of our net sales were wholesale sales to retailers and wholesalers and 18% were consumer-directed. We have well-established relationships with some of the largest apparel retailers in the world. Our largest customers are Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart”) and Target Corporation (“Target”), accounting for 14% and 11%, respectively, of our total net sales in 2019. As is common in the basic apparel industry, we generally do not have purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products. However, the majority of our key customer relationships have been in place for 10 years or more. Wal-Mart and Target are our only customers with sales that exceeded 10% of our total net sales in 2019, with substantially all Wal-Mart and Target sales reported within our Innerwear and Activewear segments. 

Sales to mass merchants in the United States accounted for approximately 23% of our total net sales in 2019 and included all of our product categories under our Hanes, Champion, Playtex, Maidenform and JMS/Just My Size brands, as well as licensed logo apparel. Mass merchants feature high-volume, low-cost sales of basic apparel items along with a diverse variety of consumer goods products, such as grocery and drug products and other hard lines, and are characterized by large retailers, such as Wal-Mart and Target. Our largest mass merchant customer is Wal-Mart, which accounted for approximately 14% of our total net sales in 2019.

Sales to mid-tier and department stores in the United States accounted for approximately 7% of our total net sales in 2019. Mid-tier stores target a higher-income consumer than mass merchants, focus more on sales of apparel items rather than other consumer goods such as grocery and drug products and are characterized by large retailers such as Kohl’s Corporation and J.C. Penney Company, Inc. We sell all of our product categories in mid-tier stores. Traditional department stores target higher-income consumers and carry more high-end, fashion conscious products than mid-tier stores or mass merchants and tend to operate in higher-income areas and commercial centers. Traditional department stores are characterized by large retailers 

4
such as Macy’s, Inc. and Belk, Inc. We sell products in our intimate apparel, underwear, socks, hosiery and activewear categories through department stores. 

Consumer-directed sales in the United States accounted for approximately 12% of our total net sales in 2019. We sell products that span across the Innerwear and Activewear product categories in the e-commerce environment through our owned e-commerce websites and through pure play e-commerce sites, such as Amazon.com (“Amazon”). We also sell a range of our products through our retail and value-based outlet stores, as well as through the e-commerce sites of our brick-and-mortar retail customers.

Sales to other customers in the United States represented approximately 22% of our total net sales in 2019. We sell T-shirts, golf and sport shirts and fleece sweatshirts to wholesalers and third-party embellishers primarily under our Hanes, Champion and Hanes Beefy-T brands. We also sell a significant range of our underwear, activewear and socks products under the Champion brand to wholesale clubs, such as Costco Wholesale Corporation, and sporting goods stores, such as DICK’S Sporting Goods Inc. We sell primarily legwear and underwear products under the Hanes and L’eggs brands to food, drug and variety stores. We also sell licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores. We sell products that span across our Innerwear and Activewear segments to the United States military for sale to servicemen and servicewomen and through discount retailers, such as the Dollar General Corporation.

Internationally, approximately 65% of our net sales were wholesale sales to retailers and 35% of our net sales were consumer-directed sales through our owned retail stores and e-commerce sites. For more information about our sales on a geographic basis, see Note, “Geographic Area Information,” to our consolidated financial statements.

Manufacturing, Sourcing and Distribution

During 2019, approximately 70% of the apparel units we sold were from finished goods manufactured through a combination of facilities we own and operate, and facilities owned and operated by dedicated third-party contractors who perform some of the steps in the manufacturing process for us, such as dyeing, cutting and/or sewing. We sourced the remainder of our finished goods from third-party manufacturers who supply us with finished products based on our designs. In making decisions about the location of manufacturing operations and third-party sources of supply, we consider a number of factors, including labor, local operating costs, geopolitical factors, product quality, regional infrastructure, applicable quotas and duties and freight costs. We believe that our balanced approach to product supply, which relies on a combination of owned, contracted and sourced manufacturing located across different geographic regions, increases the efficiency of our operations, reduces product costs and offers customers a reliable source of supply.

Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Hanesbrands

The manufacturing process for the finished goods that we manufacture begins with raw materials we obtain from suppliers. The principal raw materials in our product categories are cotton and synthetics. Cotton and synthetic materials are typically spun into yarn by our suppliers, which is then knitted into cotton, synthetic and blended fabrics. We source all of our yarn requirements from large-scale domestic and international suppliers. To a lesser extent, we purchase fabric from several domestic and international suppliers in conjunction with our scheduled production. In addition to cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles, we use thread, narrow elastic and trim for product identification, buttons, zippers, snaps and lace. These fabrics are cut and sewn into finished products, either by us or by third-party contractors. We currently operate 40 manufacturing facilities. Most of our cutting and sewing operations are strategically located in Asia, Central America and the Caribbean Basin. Alternate sources of these materials and services are readily available.

Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Third Parties

In addition to our own manufacturing capabilities, we also source finished goods from third-party manufacturers, also referred to as “turnkey products.” Many of these turnkey products are sourced from international suppliers by our strategic sourcing hubs in Asia.

All contracted and sourced manufacturing must meet our high-quality standards. Further, all contractors and third-party manufacturers must be preaudited and adhere to our strict supplier and business practices guidelines. These requirements provide strict standards that, among other things, cover hours of work, age of workers, health and safety conditions, freedom of association and conformity with local laws (including wage and hour laws) and Hanesbrands’ standards. Each new supplier must be inspected and agree to comprehensive compliance terms prior to commencing any production on our behalf. We audit compliance with these standards against our 265 question, scored audit protocol using both internal and external audit teams. We are also a fully accredited participating company in the Fair Labor Association. For more information, visit www.HanesForGood.com.

5
Distribution

As of December 28, 2019, we distributed our products from 47 distribution centers. These facilities include 15 facilities located in the United States and 32 facilities located outside the United States, primarily in regions where we sell our products. We internally manage and operate 32 of these facilities, and we use third-party logistics providers who operate the other 15 facilities on our behalf. International distribution operations use a combination of third-party logistics providers, as well as owned and operated distribution operations, to distribute goods to our various international markets.

Inventory

Effective inventory management is key to our success. Because our customers generally do not purchase our products under long-term supply contracts, but rather on a purchase order basis, effective inventory management requires close coordination with the customer base. We seek to ensure that products are available to meet customer demands while effectively managing inventory levels. We employ various types of inventory management techniques that include collaborative forecasting and planning, supplier-managed inventory, key event management and various forms of replenishment management processes. Our supplier-managed inventory initiative is intended to shift raw material ownership and management to our suppliers until consumption, freeing up cash and improving response time. We have demand management planners in our customer management group who work closely with customers to develop demand forecasts that are passed to the supply chain. We also have professionals within the customer management group who coordinate daily with our larger customers to help ensure that our customers’ planned inventory levels are in fact available at their individual retail outlets. Additionally, within our supply chain organization we have dedicated professionals who translate the demand forecast into our inventory strategy and specific production plans. These individuals work closely with our customer management team to balance inventory investment/exposure with customer service targets.

Seasonality and Other Factors

Our operating results are subject to some variability due to seasonality and other factors. For instance, we generally have higher sales during the back-to-school and holiday shopping seasons and during periods of cooler weather, which benefits certain product categories such as fleece. Our diverse range of product offerings, however, provides some mitigation to the impact of seasonal changes in demand for certain items. Sales levels in any period are also impacted by customer decisions to increase or decrease their inventory levels in response to anticipated consumer demand. Our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice to us. Media, advertising and promotion expenses may vary from period to period during a fiscal year depending on the timing of our advertising campaigns for retail selling seasons and product introductions.

Product Innovation and Marketing

A significant component of our margin-enhancing Innovate-to-Elevate strategy is our strong product research and development and innovation capabilities, including the development of new and improved products, including our Tagless apparel platform, Comfort Flex Fit apparel platform, ComfortBlend fabric platform, temperature-control X-Temp fabric platform, FreshIQ advanced odor protection technology fabric platform, SmoothTec fabric technology, Cool Comfort fabric technology and DreamWire underwire technology .

Driving innovation platforms across brands and categories is a major element of our Innovate-to-Elevate strategy as it is designed to meet key consumer needs and leverage advertising dollars. During 2019, our advertising and promotion expense was approximately $164 million, representing 2% of our total net sales. We advertise in consumer and trade publications, television and through digital initiatives including social media, online video and mobile platforms on the Internet. We also participate in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis with major retailers in print and digital media and television. During 2019, to enhance and support the growth of our brands, we increased the investment in our brands by approximately $30 million as compared to 2018. Brand investment includes costs such as advertising, marketing and other costs associated with supporting brand growth.

Competition

The basic apparel market is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. Competition generally is based upon brand, comfort, fit, style and price. Our businesses face competition today from other large domestic and foreign corporations and manufacturers. In the United States, Fruit of the Loom, Inc., a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., competes with us across our Innerwear and Activewear segments through its own offerings and those of its Russell Corporation and Vanity Fair Intimates offerings. Other competitors in our Innerwear segment include L Brands Inc.’s Victoria’s Secret brand and Jockey International, Inc. Other competitors in our Activewear segment include Gildan Activewear, Inc. and Gap Inc. Large European intimate apparel distributors such as Triumph International and Calzedonia S.p.A Group, as well as international activewear 

6
retailers such as Nike, Adidas, Puma, Under Armour and Converse, compete with us in our International segment. We also compete with many small manufacturers across all of our business segments, including our International segment. Additionally, mass merchant retailers, department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, market and sell basic apparel products under private labels and controlled brands that compete directly with our brands. Our competitive strengths include our strong brands with leading market positions, our industry-leading innovation, our high-volume, core products focus, our significant scale of operations, our global supply chain and our strong customer relationships. We continually strive to improve in each of these areas.

Intellectual Property

We market our products under hundreds of our own trademarks in the United States and other countries around the world, the most widely recognized of which are Hanes, Champion, C9 Champion, Bonds, DIM, Maidenform, Bali, Playtex, Sheridan, Lovable, Bras N Things, Nur Die/Nur Der, Alternative, L’eggs, JMS/Just My Size, Wonderbra, Berlei, Gear for Sports, Abanderado, Rinbros, Shock Absorber, Explorer and Zorba. Some of our products are sold under trademarks that have been licensed from third parties, such as Polo Ralph Lauren men’s underwear, and licensed apparel for a number of colleges and universities, including the University of Georgia and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Some of our trademarks are licensed to third parties, such as Champion for athletic-oriented accessories. In the United States and Canada, the Playtex trademark is owned by Playtex Marketing Corporation, of which we own a 50% interest and which grants to us a perpetual royalty-free license to the Playtex trademark on and in connection with the sale of apparel in the United States and Canada. Outside the United States and Canada, we own the Playtex trademark and perpetually license such trademark to an unaffiliated third party for non-apparel products. We own the Berlei trademark in Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and a limited number of smaller jurisdictions. Apart from these jurisdictions, the Berlei trademark is owned by an unaffiliated third party in most major markets, including Japan, China, the United States and the European Union. Our trademarks are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. 

We aggressively protect these trademarks from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally remain valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. Most of the trademarks in our portfolio, including our core brands, are covered by trademark registrations in the countries of the world in which we do business, in addition to many other jurisdictions around the world, with a registration period of 10 years in most countries. Generally, trademark registrations can be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. We have an active program designed to ensure that our trademarks are registered, renewed, protected and maintained. We plan to continue to use all of our core trademarks and plan to renew the registrations for such trademarks as needed. 

 We also own a number of copyrights. Most of our copyrights are unregistered, although we have a sizable portfolio of copyrighted lace designs that are the subject of a number of registrations at the United States Copyright Office.

We place high importance on product innovation and design, and a number of these innovations and designs are the subject of patents. However, we do not regard any segment of our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, we own proprietary trade secrets, technology and know-how that we have not patented.

Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters

We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States that could affect our business, including those promulgated under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, the Textile Fiber Product Identification Act, the rules and regulations of the Consumer Products Safety Commission and various environmental laws and regulations. Some of our international businesses are subject to similar laws and regulations in the countries in which they operate. Our operations also are subject to various international trade agreements and regulations. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable governmental regulations, current governmental regulations may change or become more stringent or unforeseen events may occur, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.

We are also subject to various domestic and international laws and regulations relating to generating emissions, water discharges, waste, product and packaging content and workplace safety. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in substantial monetary penalties and criminal sanctions. We are aware of hazardous substances or petroleum releases at certain of our facilities and are working with the relevant environmental authorities to investigate and address such releases. We also have been identified as a “potentially responsible party” at certain waste disposal sites in the United States undergoing investigation and cleanup under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as Superfund) or state Superfund equivalent programs. Where we have determined that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can reasonably be estimated, we have accrued amounts on our balance sheet for losses related to these sites. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations and our remedial environmental obligations 

7
historically have not had a material impact on our operations, and we are not aware of any proposed regulations or remedial obligations that could trigger significant costs or capital expenditures in connection with such compliance.

Corporate Social Responsibility

Hanesbrands conducts business around the world in a highly ethical manner. We are protective of our strong reputation for corporate citizenship and social responsibility and proud of our significant achievements in the areas of environmental stewardship, workplace quality and community building.

We call our corporate social responsibility program “Hanes for Good” because adhering to responsible and sustainable business practices is good for our company, good for our employees, good for our communities and good for our investors. We own the majority of our supply chain and have more direct control over how we do business than many of our competitors. More than 70% of the apparel units that we sell are produced in facilities that we own or control through dedicated contractors. We also have an industry-leading compliance program that helps to ensure our business partners live up to the high standards that we set for ourselves.

Hanesbrands earned a leadership level A- score for the second consecutive year in the CDP Climate Change Report and has been a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Energy Star Sustained Excellence Award winner for ten consecutive years. We are members of the Fair Labor Association, the Sustainable Apparel Coalition, The Sustainability Consortium and the Corporate Eco Forum, and we have been recognized for our socially responsible business practices by such organizations as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Energy Star program, social compliance rating group Free2Work, the United Way, Corporate Responsibility magazine and others. 

We have also made significant progress towards our goals for significant reductions in energy use, carbon dioxide emissions and water use by 2020. Since 2007, we have reduced our energy consumption by 23%, decreased carbon dioxide emissions by 36% and cut water usage by 31%, and we have shifted 41% of our total energy consumption to renewable sources. Hanesbrands has also achieved a landfill diversion rate of 86%, recycling more than 107 million pounds of fabric-cut parts, corrugate, plastic and other materials. Based on these accomplishments, we are setting even more ambitious goals for environmental performance over the next decade.

We pride ourselves on listening to stakeholders outside our company and reacting quickly and responsibly if issues emerge. We hope to continue making a positive and lasting contribution to our world in the years to come. More information about our Hanes for Good corporate responsibility initiatives may be found at www.HanesForGood.com.

Employees

As of December 28, 2019, we had approximately 63,000 employees, approximately 8,000 of whom were located in the United States. As of December 28, 2019, less than 20 employees in the United States were covered by collective bargaining agreements. A significant portion of our employees based in foreign countries are represented by works councils or unions or are subject to trade-sponsored or governmental agreements. We believe our relationships with our employees are good.

Item 1A.Risk Factors