Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Financial Instruments, Other Financial Instruments, and Derivative Commodity Instruments. Financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, equity cost-method investments, foreign currency contracts, interest rate cap and interest rate swap agreements, insurance contracts, accounts payable and debt obligations. Except for our outstanding 2025 and 2028 Senior Notes, the fair value of these financial instruments approximate their carrying amount. The fair value of our 2025 and 2028 Senior Notes was approximately $971.5 million and $419.1 million, respectively, as of September 26, 2020. Amounts outstanding under our 2018 Credit Agreement of $1.71 billion aggregate principal as of September 26, 2020 are subject to variable rates of interest based on current market rates, and as such, we believe the carrying amount of these obligations approximates fair value.

Primary Market Risk Exposures. Our primary market risk exposure is in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. We incur interest expense on borrowings outstanding under our 2025 and 2028 Senior Notes and 2018 Credit Agreement. The 2025 and 2028 Senior Notes have fixed interest rates. Borrowings under our 2018 Credit Agreement currently bear interest at the Eurocurrency Rate (i.e., Libor) plus the applicable margin of 1.25% per annum. Borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization program currently bear interest at Libor plus the applicable margin of 0.7%.

As of September 26, 2020, there was $1.71 billion of aggregate principal outstanding under the 2018 Credit Agreement aggregate principal outstanding. Since these debt obligations are variable rate instruments, our interest expense associated with these instruments is subject to change. A 10% adverse movement (increase in LIBOR rate) would increase annual interest expense by approximately $0.3 million. We entered into multiple interest rate cap agreements and an interest rate swap agreement to help mitigate the interest rate volatility associated with the variable rate interest on the amounts outstanding. The critical terms of the interest rate caps and interest rate swap were designed to mirror the terms of our LIBOR-based borrowings under the 2018 Credit Agreement, and therefore the interest rate caps and interest rate swap are highly effective at offsetting the cash flows being hedged. We designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges of the variability of the Libor-based interest payments on $1.0 billion of principal. The interest rate cap contract expires on December 23, 2020, and the interest rate swap contract expires on December 17, 2023.

The UK Financial Conduct Authority announced in 2017 that it intends to phase out LIBOR by the end of 2021. If changes are made to the method of calculating LIBOR or LIBOR ceases to exist, we may need to amend certain contracts, including our 2018 Credit Agreement and related interest rate cap and swap agreements, and we cannot predict what alternative rate or benchmark would be negotiated or the extent to which this would adversely affect our interest rate and the effectiveness of our interest rate hedging activity.

The return from cash and cash equivalents will vary as short-term interest rates change. A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.

55
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. Our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors.

We conduct business worldwide and maintain sales and service offices outside the United States as well as manufacturing facilities in Costa Rica and the United Kingdom. Our international sales are denominated in a number of currencies, primarily the Euro, U.S. dollar, UK Pound and Renminbi. The majority of our foreign subsidiaries functional currency is the local currency, although certain foreign subsidiaries functional currency is the U.S. dollar based on the nature of their operations or functions. Fluctuations in the foreign currency rates could affect our sales, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluations can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. We have executed forward foreign currency contracts and foreign currency option contracts to hedge a portion of results denominated in the Euro, UK Pound, Australian dollar, Japanese Yen, Canadian dollar and Chinese Renminbi. These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting. As a result, we may experience volatility in our Consolidated Statements of Operations due to (i) the impact of unrealized gains and losses reported in other income, net on the mark-to-market of outstanding contracts and (ii) realized gains and losses recognized in other income, net, whereas the offsetting economic gains and losses are reported in the line item of the underlying cash flow, for example, revenue. 

We believe that the operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are affected by changes in the relative strength of the U.S. dollar against those currencies. Our expenses, denominated in foreign currencies, are positively affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens against those currencies and adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens. However, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. We believe a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in foreign currencies that we transact in would not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. During fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, we incurred net foreign exchange gains (losses) of $3.4 million, $5.1 million and $5.9 million, respectively.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data