PART I.

Item 1. Business

Honeywell International Inc. (“Honeywell” or “the Company”) invents and commercializes technologies that address some of the world’s most critical challenges around energy, safety, security, air travel, productivity and global urbanization. As a diversified technology and manufacturing company, we are uniquely positioned to blend physical products with software to serve customers worldwide with aerospace products and services, energy efficient products and solutions for businesses, specialty chemicals, electronic and advanced materials, process technology for refining and petrochemicals, and productivity, sensing, safety and security technologies for buildings and industries. Our products and solutions enable a safer, more comfortable and more productive world, enhancing the quality of life of people around the globe. Honeywell was incorporated in Delaware in 1985.

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge on our website (www.honeywell.com) under the heading Investors (see SEC Filings and Reports) immediately after they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company incorporates by reference certain information from parts of its Proxy Statement for the 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we expect to file with the SEC on or about March 12, 2020, and which will also be available free of charge on our website.

Major Businesses

We globally manage our business operations through four segments: Aerospace, Honeywell Building Technologies, Performance Materials and Technologies, and Safety and Productivity Solutions. Financial information related to our segments is included in Note 22 Segment Financial Data of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The major products/services, including Honeywell Forge solutions supported by Honeywell Connected Enterprise ("HCE"), customers/uses and key competitors of each of our segments are: 

Aerospace

Aerospace is a leading global supplier of products, software and services for aircrafts that it sells to original equipment manufacturers (OEM) and other customers in a variety of end markets including: air transport, regional, business and general aviation aircraft, airlines, aircraft operators and defense and space contractors. Aerospace products and services include auxiliary power units, propulsion engines, environmental control systems, integrated avionics, wireless connectivity services, electric power systems, engine controls, flight safety, communications, navigation hardware, data and software applications, radar and surveillance systems, aircraft lighting, management and technical services, advanced systems and instruments, satellite and space components, aircraft wheels and brakes, repair and overhaul services and thermal systems. Aerospace also provides spare parts, repair, overhaul and maintenance services (principally to aircraft operators) for the aftermarket. Honeywell Forge solutions are designed to identify and resolve problems faster, making fleet management and flight operations more efficient. 

Honeywell Building Technologies

Honeywell Building Technologies is a leading global provider of products, software, solutions and technologies that enable building owners and occupants to ensure their facilities are safe, energy efficient, sustainable and productive. Honeywell Building Technologies products and services include advanced software applications for building control and optimization; sensors, switches, control systems and instruments for energy management; access control; video surveillance; fire products; remote patient monitoring systems; and installation, maintenance and upgrades of systems. Honeywell Forge solutions are designed to digitally manage buildings to use space intelligently, cut operating expenses and reduce maintenance. 

1

Performance Materials and Technologies

Performance Materials and Technologies is a global leader in developing and manufacturing high-quality performance chemicals and materials, process technologies and automation solutions, including Honeywell Forge connected solutions. The segment comprises Process Solutions, UOP and Advanced Materials. Process Solutions provides automation control, instrumentation, advanced software and related services for the oil and gas, refining, pulp and paper, industrial power generation, chemicals and petrochemicals, biofuels, life sciences, and metals, minerals and mining industries. Through its smart energy products, Process Solutions enables utilities and distribution companies to deploy advanced capabilities to improve operations, reliability and environmental sustainability. UOP provides process technology, products, including catalysts and adsorbents, equipment, and consulting services that enable customers to efficiently produce gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, petrochemicals and renewable fuels for the petroleum refining, gas processing, petrochemical, and other industries. Advanced Materials manufactures a wide variety of high-performance products, including materials used to manufacture end products such as bullet-resistant armor, nylon, computer chips and pharmaceutical packaging, and provides reduced and low global-warming-potential (GWP) materials based on hydrofluoro-olefin technology. In the industrial environment, Honeywell Forge solutions enable integration and connectivity to provide a holistic view of operations and turn data into clear actions to maximize productivity and efficiency. Honeywell Forge's cybersecurity capabilities help identify risks and act on cyber-related incidents, together enabling improved operations and protecting processes, people and assets. 

Safety and Productivity Solutions

Safety and Productivity Solutions is a leading global provider of products and software that improve productivity, workplace safety and asset performance to customers around the globe. Safety products include personal protection equipment, apparel, gear, and footwear designed for work, play and outdoor activities; gas detection technology; and cloud-based notification and emergency messaging. Productivity Solutions products and services include mobile devices and software for computing, data collection and thermal printing; supply chain and warehouse automation equipment, software and solutions; custom-engineered sensors, switches and controls for sensing and productivity solutions; and software-based data and asset management productivity solutions. Honeywell Forge solutions digitally automate processes to improve efficiency while reducing downtime and safety costs. 

Competition

We are subject to competition in substantially all product and service areas. Some of our key competitors are:

•Aerospace: Garmin, Safran, Thales, and United Technologies

•Honeywell Building Technologies: Johnson Controls, Schneider Electric, Siemens and United Technologies

•Performance Materials and Technologies: Albemarle, BASF, Dupont, Emerson Electric, Schneider Electric, Siemens, Sinopec and Yokogawa

•Safety and Productivity Solutions: 3M, Kion Group, Mine Safety Appliances (MSA), TE Connectivity, and Zebra Technologies

Our businesses compete on a variety of factors such as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied technology, product innovation and product recognition. Brand identity, service to customers and quality are important competitive factors for our products and services, and there is considerable price competition. Other competitive factors include breadth of product line, research and development efforts and technical and managerial capability. While our competitive position varies among our products and services, we believe we are a significant competitor in each of our major product and service classes. Many of our competitors have substantial financial resources and significant technological capabilities. In addition, some of our products compete with the captive component divisions of OEMs.

U.S. Government Sales

Sales to the U.S. Government (principally by Aerospace), acting through its various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to $4,057 million, $3,403 million and $3,203 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, which included sales to the U.S. Department of Defense, as a prime contractor and subcontractor, of $3,491 million, $2,832 million and $2,546 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017. We do not expect our overall operating results to be significantly affected by any proposed changes in 2020 federal defense spending due principally to the varied mix of the government programs which impact us (OEMs’ production, engineering development programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs), as well as our diversified commercial businesses.

2

International Operations

We engage in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development (R&D) globally. U.S. exports and non-U.S. manufactured products are significant to our operations. U.S. exports comprised 15% of our total sales in 2019, 13% in 2018 and 12% in 2017. Non-U.S. manufactured products and services, mainly in Europe and Asia, were 40% of our total sales in 2019, 43% in 2018 and 44% in 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Information related to risks attendant to our foreign operations is included in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the caption “Macroeconomic and Industry Risks.”

Backlog

Our backlog represents the estimated remaining value of work to be performed under firm contracts. Backlog is equal to our remaining performance obligations under the contracts that meet the guidance on revenue from contracts with customers as discussed in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Backlog was $25,612 million and $24,850 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018. We expect to recognize approximately 57% of our remaining performance obligations as revenue in 2020, and the remaining balance thereafter.

Raw Materials

The principal raw materials used in our operations are readily available. Although we occasionally experience disruption in raw materials supply, we experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials or commodities in 2019. We are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials.

Prices of certain key raw materials, including copper, fluorspar, tungsten salts, ethylene, aluminum, and molybdenum in Performance Materials and Technologies and nickel, steel, titanium and other metals in Aerospace, are expected to fluctuate. We offset raw material cost increases with formula or long-term supply agreements, price increases and hedging activities where feasible. We do not presently anticipate that a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impacts during 2020.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses and Distribution Rights

Our segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. In our judgment, our intellectual property rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. We believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any individual patent, trademark or any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product to be of material importance in relation to our total business.

3

Environment

We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regarding protection of human health and the environment. Our policies, practices and procedures are designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. Some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses.

We engage in the handling, manufacturing, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous by one or more regulatory agencies. Our policies, practices and procedures are designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances meet or exceed environmental and safety laws and regulations. It is possible that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances.

Among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal Superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with current and former operating sites and various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s National Priority List. While there is a possibility that a responsible party might be unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we do not anticipate having to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole.

We do not believe that Federal, State and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, or any existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on the Company’s business. We will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area.

Employees

We have approximately 113,000 employees at December 31, 2019, of whom approximately 44,000 are located in the United States.

4

Information About our Executive Officers

The executive officers of Honeywell, listed as follows, are elected annually by the Board of Directors. There are no family relationships among them.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Also a Director.

Item 1A. Risk Factors