Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Honeywell International Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (“Honeywell” or “the Company”) for the three years ended December 31, 2019. All references to Notes relate to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

On October 1, 2018, we completed the tax-free spin-off to Honeywell shareowners of our Transportation Systems business, previously part of Aerospace, into a standalone publicly-traded company, Garrett Motion Inc. (“Garrett”). 

On October 29, 2018, we completed the tax-free spin-off to Honeywell shareowners of our Homes and Global Distribution business, previously part of Home and Building Technologies (renamed Honeywell Building Technologies following the spin-off), into a standalone publicly-traded company, Resideo Technologies, Inc. (“Resideo”). 

We removed the assets and liabilities associated with Garrett and Resideo from our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the effective dates of the respective spin-offs. We included the results of operations for Garrett and Resideo in our Consolidated Statement of Operations through the effective dates of the respective spin-offs. Total sales and total cost of products and services sold attributable to these spin-offs, impacting segment profit, were $6.6 billion and $4.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

A detailed discussion of the prior year 2018 to 2017 year-over-year changes are not included herein and can be found in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section in the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 8, 2019.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

During 2019, we continued to deliver on our financial commitments and to create long-term shareowner value. Income before taxes grew 1% to $7.6 billion despite the spin-offs. The improvement in year over year Income before taxes was attributable to both sales growth as well as operational improvements that increased operating margins. We believe our ability to drive continuous earnings growth over a long history results from consistently identifying and investing in productivity initiatives. We continue to focus on commercial excellence and improvements in our manufacturing and operational processes, including our Integrated Supply Chain and Honeywell Digital transformations, to drive higher sales at better margins.

We are careful not to allow the attainment of short-term financial results to imperil the creation of long-term, sustainable shareowner value. We are committed to a strategy to become one of the world’s leading software industrial companies. Our technology investments allow us to introduce new technology solutions in high growth businesses in broad-based, attractive industrial end markets. Each of these end markets is characterized by favorable global mega-trends including energy efficiency, infrastructure investment, urbanization and safety.

In 2019 we deployed capital of $7.8 billion, including capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases, mergers and acquisitions, and venture investments.

BUSINESS OBJECTIVES

Our businesses are focused on the following objectives:

•Driving profitable growth through delivering innovative products through research and development and technological excellence, and through continued enhancement of our footprint in high growth regions;

•Continuing to execute on our strategy to become the premier software-industrial, including the ongoing expansion of Honeywell Forge connected solutions for aircraft, buildings, cybersecurity, plants, and workers and driving a recurring revenue model across the Company;

•Expanding margins by optimizing the Company’s cost structure through Supply Chain and Honeywell Digital transformation initiatives, commercial excellence, repositioning, and other manufacturing and operational process improvements;

•Executing disciplined, rigorous M&A and integration processes to deliver growth through acquisitions;

•Controlling corporate costs, including costs incurred for asbestos and environmental matters, pension and other post-retirement benefits; and

•Increasing availability of capital through strong cash flow generation and conversion from effective working capital management and proactively managing debt to enable the Company to smartly deploy capital for strategic acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases and capital expenditures.

17

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Net Sales

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales decreased in 2019 compared to 2018 due to the spin-offs. Our 2018 results included $6,550 million of sales related to the Transportation Systems and Homes and Global Distribution businesses. Absent the impact of the spin-offs during 2018, sales grew 4% from $35,252 in 2018 to $36,709 in 2019. 

The change in net sales is attributable to the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A discussion of net sales by segment can be found in the Review of Business Segments section of this Management’s Discussion and Analysis.

The unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation in 2019 compared with 2018 was principally driven by the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the currencies of the majority of our international markets, primarily the Euro, British Pound and Chinese Renminbi.

Cost of Products and Services Sold

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of products and services sold decreased in 2019 compared to 2018 due to lower direct and indirect material costs of approximately $3,920 million, lower labor costs of approximately $160 million (both driven by the spin-offs of the Transportation Systems and Homes and Global Distribution businesses), and lower repositioning and other charges of approximately $530 million, largely due to lower asbestos and environmental related charges net of the reimbursements. Absent the impact of these items during 2018, cost of products and services sold increased approximately 3%.

Gross margin percentage increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to higher gross margin in the segments (approximately 1.4 percentage points), with higher Aerospace, Honeywell Building Technologies and Performance Materials and Technologies gross margins, including the favorable impact following the spin-offs, partially offset by lower Safety and Productivity Solutions gross margin. Additionally, gross margin percentage increased due to the lower costs within cost of products and services sold for repositioning and other charges (approximately 1.5 percentage point impact) and pension service costs (approximately 0.2 percentage point impact).

18

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to the impact of the spin-offs. In addition, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to productivity and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by labor inflation.

Other (Income) Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other (income) expense decreased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to lower pension non-service income, partially offset by lower separation costs.

Tax Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The effective tax rate for 2019 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily resulting from the impacts of revised guidance related to U.S. Tax Reform and internal restructuring initiatives that resulted in a $281 million reduction of accrued withholding taxes related to unremitted foreign earnings.

The effective tax rate for 2018 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily attributable to internal restructuring initiatives that resulted in a reduction of accrued withholding taxes of approximately $1.1 billion related to unremitted foreign earnings. In addition, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $440 million as a reduction to our 2017 provisional estimate of impacts from what is commonly referred to as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“U.S. Tax Reform”), which was partially offset by $411 million of tax costs associated with the internal restructuring of the Homes and Global Distribution business and the Transportation Systems business in advance of their spin-offs. 

For further discussion of changes in the effective tax rate, see Note 5 Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Net Income Attributable to Honeywell

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Earnings per share of common stock–assuming dilution decreased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily driven by the absence of profit attributable to the spin-offs, higher income tax expense (attributable to a lower income tax benefit related to U.S. Tax Reform and internal restructuring initiatives when compared to the prior year), partially offset by increased operational segment profit and lower repositioning and other charges.

19

Review of Business Segments

We globally manage our business operations through four segments: Aerospace, Honeywell Building Technologies, Performance Materials and Technologies, and Safety and Productivity Solutions.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

20

Aerospace

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 compared with 2018 

Aerospace sales decreased due to the impact of the spin-off of the Transportation Systems business. Our 2018 results included $2,622 million of sales related to the spin-off. Absent the impact of the spin-off during 2018, sales grew approximately 9% from $12,871 million to $14,054 million due to growth in organic sales.

•Commercial Aviation Original Equipment sales increased 6% (increased 6% organic) primarily due to increased demand from business aviation original equipment manufacturers (OEM).

•Commercial Aviation Aftermarket sales increased 7% (increased 7% organic) primarily due to growth in air transport and regional and business aviation.

•Defense and Space sales increased 14% (increased 14% organic) primarily driven by growth in U.S. and international defense.

Aerospace segment profit increased primarily due to organic sales volume, price, and productivity, net of inflation, partially offset by the divestiture impacts following the spin-off of the Transportation Systems business. Cost of products and services sold decreased primarily due to the spin-off of the Transportation Systems business and productivity, net of inflation, partially offset by higher sales volume.

21

Honeywell Building Technologies

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 compared with 2018 

Honeywell Building Technologies sales decreased due to the impact of the spin-off of the Homes and Global Distribution business. Our 2018 results included $3,928 million of sales related to the spin-off. Absent the impact of the spin-off during 2018, sales grew approximately 6% from $5,370 million to $5,717 million.

•Sales in Building Technologies increased 6% (increased 5% organic) due to the organic growth in both Products and Building Solutions, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation.

Honeywell Building Technologies segment profit decreased primarily due to the divestiture impacts following the spin-off of the Homes and Global Distribution business. This was offset by an increase in organic sales volumes and price, partially offset by inflation. Cost of products and services sold decreased due to the spin-off, partially offset by higher sales volumes.

22

Performance Materials and Technologies

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 compared with 2018 

Performance Materials and Technologies sales increased primarily due to organic growth, mainly due to volumes, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation.

•UOP sales increased 2% (increased 3% organic) driven primarily by increases in catalyst sales, project volumes, and licensing, partially offset by lower gas processing volumes and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation.

•Process Solutions sales increased 3% (increased 6% organic) driven primarily by increases in maintenance and migration services, project volumes, field products, and software sales, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation.

•Advanced Materials sales decreased 2% (flat organic) driven primarily by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation and decreased volumes in specialty products, partially offset by growth in fluorine products sales.

Performance Materials and Technologies segment profit increased primarily due to productivity, net of inflation, and price, partially offset by higher sales of lower margin products and the impact of foreign currency translation. Cost of products and services sold increased primarily due to higher sales volumes, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency translation and productivity, net of inflation.

23

Safety and Productivity Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 compared with 2018 

Safety and Productivity Solutions sales decreased primarily due to lower organic sales and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by acquisitions.

•Sales in Safety decreased 3% (decreased 1% organic) primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation and lower organic sales in Industrial Safety.

•Sales in Productivity Solutions decreased 4% (decreased 6% organic) primarily due to lower organic sales in Productivity Products and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by acquisitions.

Safety and Productivity Solutions segment profit decreased as a result of lower sales volumes in Productivity Products, higher sales of lower margin products and the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by higher productivity, net of inflation, favorable pricing and acquisitions. Cost of products and services sold decreased primarily due to higher productivity, net of inflation, and the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by acquisitions.

Repositioning Charges

See Note 3 Repositioning and Other Charges of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our repositioning actions and related charges incurred in 2019, 2018 and 2017. Cash spending related to our repositioning actions was $249 million, $285 million and $177 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, and was funded through operating cash flows. In 2020, we expect cash spending for repositioning actions to be approximately $300 million and to be funded through operating cash flows.

24

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We continue to manage our businesses to maximize operating cash flows as the primary source of liquidity. In addition to our available cash and operating cash flows, we maintain additional sources of liquidity, including committed credit lines, short-term debt from the commercial paper market, long-term borrowings, access to the public debt and equity markets and the ability to access non-U.S. cash as a result of the U.S. Tax Reform. We use cash generated through operations to invest in our existing core businesses, acquisitions, share repurchases and dividends.

Cash Flow Summary

Our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 compared with 2018 

Cash provided by operating activities increased by $463 million primarily due to $276 million decrease in net payments for repositioning and other charges, largely due to asbestos and environmental related reimbursement receipts, and a $35 million favorable impact from working capital (favorable inventory and accounts receivable partially offset by accounts payable).

Cash used by investing activities increased by $1,560 million primarily due to a net $1,762 million increase in investments, primarily short-term marketable securities.

Cash used for financing activities increased by $1,568 million primarily due to the prior year pre-spin separation funding of $2,622 million net of spin-off cash, an increase in cash dividends paid of $170 million and an increase in net repurchases of common stock of $169 million, partially offset by a decrease in net debt payments of $1,330 million.

Liquidity

Each of our businesses is focused on increasing operating cash flows through revenue growth, margin expansion and improved working capital turnover. We believe that cash balances and operating cash flow will continue to be our principal source of liquidity. In addition to the available cash and operating cash flows, additional sources of liquidity include committed credit lines, short-term debt from the commercial paper markets, long-term borrowings, and access to the public debt and equity markets. To date, the Company has not experienced any limitations in our ability to access these sources of liquidity.

We monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents on a daily basis. Our emphasis is primarily safety of principal and secondarily maximizing yield of those funds. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities.

A source of liquidity is our ability to access the commercial paper market. Commercial paper notes are sold at a discount or premium and have a maturity of not more than 365 days from date of issuance. Borrowings under the commercial paper program are available for general corporate purposes as well as for financing acquisitions. The weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings and commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2019 was (0.37%) and as of December 31, 2018 was (0.31%).

Our ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and market conditions. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by the major independent debt-rating agencies. As of December 31, 2019, Standard and Poor’s (S&P), Fitch, and Moody’s have ratings on our long-term debt of A, A and A2 and short-term debt of A-1, F1 and P1. S&P, Fitch and Moody’s have Honeywell’s rating outlook as “stable.”

25

We also have a current shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under which we may issue additional debt securities, common stock and preferred stock that may be offered in one or more offerings on terms to be determined at the time of the offering. Net proceeds of any offering would be used for general corporate purposes, including repayment of existing indebtedness, share repurchases, capital expenditures and acquisitions.

See Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures and Note 13 Long-term Debt and Credit Agreements of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of items impacting our liquidity.

In 2019, we repurchased $4,400 million of outstanding shares to offset the dilutive impact of employee stock based compensation plans, including option exercises, restricted unit vesting and matching contributions under our savings plans, and to reduce share count when attractive opportunities arise. On April 29, 2019, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to a total of $10.0 billion of Honeywell common stock, of which $7.0 billion remained available as of December 31, 2019 for additional share repurchases. This authorization included amounts remaining under and replaced the previously approved share repurchase program. We expect to repurchase outstanding shares from time to time to offset the dilutive impact of employee stock based compensation plans, including option exercises, restricted unit vesting and matching contributions under our savings plans. We will continue to seek to reduce share count via share repurchases when attractive opportunities arise.

In addition to our normal operating cash requirements, our principal future cash requirements will be to fund capital expenditures, share repurchases, dividends, strategic acquisitions and debt repayments.

Specifically, we expect our primary cash requirements in 2020 to be as follows:

•Capital expenditures—we expect to spend approximately $900 million for capital expenditures in 2020 primarily for growth, production and capacity expansion, cost reduction, maintenance, and replacement.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We continuously assess the relative strength of each business in our portfolio as to strategic fit, market position, profit and cash flow contribution in order to identify target investment and acquisition opportunities in order to upgrade our combined portfolio. We identify acquisition candidates that will further our strategic plan and strengthen our existing core businesses. We also identify businesses that do not fit into our long-term strategic plan based on their market position, relative profitability or growth potential. These businesses are considered for potential divestiture, restructuring or other repositioning actions subject to regulatory constraints. 

Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our future operating cash needs. Our available cash, committed credit lines and access to the public debt and equity markets, provide additional sources of short-term and long-term liquidity to fund current operations, debt maturities, and future investment opportunities.

26

Contractual Obligations

Following is a summary of our significant contractual obligations and probable liability payments at December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Assumes all long-term debt is outstanding until scheduled maturity.

(2)Purchase obligations are entered into with various vendors in the normal course of business and are consistent with our expected requirements.

(3)The payment amounts in the table only reflect the environmental liabilities which are probable and reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2019.

(4)These amounts are estimates of asbestos related cash payments for NARCO and Bendix based on our asbestos related liabilities which are probable and reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2019. See Asbestos Matters in Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

(5)These amounts represent our insurance recoveries that are deemed probable for asbestos related liabilities as of December 31, 2019. See Asbestos Matters in Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

(6)The table excludes tax liability payments, including those for unrecognized tax benefits. See Note 5 Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

(7)The table excludes expected proceeds from the indemnification and reimbursement agreements entered into with Garrett and Resideo. See Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Asbestos Matters

Payments, net of insurance recoveries, related to known asbestos matters was $163 million, $216 million and $239 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017 and is estimated to be approximately $320 million in 2020. We expect to pay these asbestos matters from operating cash flows. The timing of these payments depends on several factors, including the timing of litigation and settlements of liability claims. 

Reimbursements from Garrett for payments related to asbestos matters, as defined in the indemnification and reimbursement agreement, was $152 million in 2019 and is expected to be approximately $115 million in 2020. We received approximately $36 million in January 2020.

See Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our asbestos matters and the indemnification and reimbursement agreement entered into with Garrett.

27

Environmental Matters

Accruals for environmental matters deemed probable and reasonably estimable were $213 million, $395 million and $287 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017. In addition, in 2019, 2018 and 2017 we incurred operating costs for ongoing businesses of approximately $99 million, $95 million and $82 million relating to compliance with environmental regulations.

Payments related to known environmental matters was $256 million, $218 million and $212 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017 and is estimated to be approximately $220 million in 2020. We expect to pay these environmental matters from operating cash flows. The timing of these payments depends on several factors, including the timing of litigation and settlements of remediation liability, personal injury and property damage claims, regulatory approval of cleanup projects, execution timeframe of projects, remedial techniques to be utilized and agreement with other parties.

Reimbursements from Resideo for payments related to environmental matters at certain sites, as defined in the indemnification and reimbursement agreement, was $140 million in 2019 and is expected to be $140 million in 2020. We received approximately $35 million in January 2020.

See Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our environmental matters and the indemnification and reimbursement agreement entered into with Resideo.

Financial Instruments

The following table illustrates the potential change in fair value for interest rate sensitive instruments based on a hypothetical immediate one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and the potential change in fair value for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments based on a 10% weakening of the U.S. Dollar versus local currency exchange rates across all maturities at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Asset or (liability)

(2)A hypothetical immediate one percentage point decrease in interest rates across all maturities and a potential change in fair value of foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments based on a 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar versus local currency exchange rates across all maturities will result in a change in fair value approximately equal to the inverse of the amount disclosed in the table.

(3)Changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange contracts are offset by changes in the fair value, cash flows, or net investments of underlying hedged foreign currency transactions or foreign operations.

See Note 15 Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measures of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the agreements.

28

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is based on the selection and application of accounting policies that require us to make significant estimates and assumptions about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Many estimates and assumptions involved in the application of accounting principles have a material impact on reported financial condition and operating performance and on the comparability of such reported information over different reporting periods. Critical accounting estimates or assumptions are those where the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. We consider the estimates and assumptions discussed below to be critical to the understanding of our financial statements. Actual results could differ from our estimates and assumptions, and any such differences could be material to our consolidated financial statements.

Contingent Liabilities—We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which involve substantial dollar amounts) that arise out of the conduct of our global business operations or those of previously owned entities, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employee benefit plans, intellectual property, legal and environmental, health and safety matters. We continually assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to our contingencies, as well as potential amounts or ranges of probable losses, and recognize a liability, if any, for these contingencies based on a thorough analysis of each matter with the assistance of outside legal counsel and, if applicable, other experts. Such analysis includes making judgments concerning matters such as the costs associated with environmental matters, the outcome of negotiations, the number and cost of pending and future asbestos claims, and the impact of evidentiary requirements. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new developments (including new discovery of facts, changes in legislation and outcomes of similar cases through the judicial system), changes in assumptions or changes in our settlement strategy. See Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of management’s judgment applied in the recognition and measurement of our environmental and asbestos liabilities which represent our most significant contingencies.

Asbestos Related Liabilities and Insurance Recoveries—In connection with the recognition of liabilities for asbestos related matters, we record asbestos related insurance recoveries that are deemed probable. In assessing the probability of insurance recovery, we make judgments concerning insurance coverage that we believe are reasonable and consistent with our historical dealings and our knowledge of any pertinent solvency issues surrounding insurers. While the substantial majority of our insurance carriers are solvent, some of our individual carriers are insolvent, which has been considered in our analysis of probable recoveries. Projecting future events is subject to various uncertainties that could cause the insurance recovery on asbestos related liabilities to be higher or lower than that projected and recorded. Given the inherent uncertainty in making future projections, we reevaluate our projections concerning our probable insurance recoveries considering any changes to the projected liability, our recovery experience or other relevant factors that may impact future insurance recoveries.

Our involvement in asbestos related personal injury actions relates to two predecessor companies. Regarding North American Refractories Company (“NARCO”) asbestos related claims, we accrue for pending claims based on terms and conditions in agreements with NARCO, its former parent company, and certain asbestos claimants, and an estimate of the unsettled claims pending as of the time NARCO filed for bankruptcy protection. We also accrue for the estimated value of future NARCO asbestos related claims expected to be asserted against the NARCO Trust. The estimate of future NARCO claims was prepared in 2002, in the same year NARCO filed for bankruptcy protection, using NARCO tort system litigation experience based on a commonly accepted methodology used by numerous bankruptcy courts addressing 524(g) trusts. Accordingly, the estimated value of future NARCO asbestos claims was prepared before there was data on claims filings and payment rates in the NARCO Trust under the Trust Distribution Procedures and prepared when the stay of all NARCO asbestos claims was in effect (which remained in effect until NARCO emerged from Bankruptcy protection). Some critical assumptions underlying this commonly accepted methodology included claims filing rates, disease criteria and payment values contained in the Trust Distribution Procedures, estimated approval rates of claims submitted to the NARCO Trust and epidemiological studies estimating disease instances. This estimate resulted in a range of estimated liability of $743 million to $961 million. We believe that no amount within this range is a better estimate than any other amount and accordingly, we have recorded the minimum amount in the range. Given the Trust’s lack of sufficiently reliable claims data since NARCO emerged from bankruptcy protection, it is not yet possible to update our estimated future claim costs based on actual NARCO Trust experience. When sufficiently reliable claims data exists, we will update our estimate of the NARCO Trust Liability and it is possible that a material change may need to be recognized. Regarding Bendix Friction Materials (“Bendix”) asbestos related claims, we accrued for the estimated value of pending claims using average resolution values for the previous 

29

five years. We also accrued for the estimated value of future claims related to Bendix over the full term of epidemiological projections through 2059 based on historic and anticipated claims filing experience and dismissal rates, disease classifications, and average resolution values in the tort system for the previous five years.

See Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of management’s judgments applied in the recognition and measurement of our asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries.

Reimbursement Receivables—In conjunction with the Garrett and Resideo spin-offs, the Company entered into reimbursement agreements under which Honeywell receives cash payments as reimbursement primarily for asbestos related liability payments related to the Bendix business in the U.S. (Garrett) and net spending for environmental matters at certain sites as defined in the agreement (Resideo). Accordingly, the Company has recorded a receivable based on estimates in the underlying reimbursable Honeywell spend, and we monitor the recoverability of such receivable, which is subject to terms of applicable credit agreements and general ability to pay.

See Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the recognition and measurement of our reimbursement receivables.

Defined Benefit Pension Plans—We sponsor both funded and unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans. For financial reporting purposes, net periodic pension (income) expense is calculated annually based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including a discount rate for plan obligations and an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Changes in the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets could materially affect the annual pension (income) expense amount. Annual pension (income) expense is comprised of service and interest cost, assumed return on plan assets, prior service amortization (Pension Ongoing (Income) Expense) and a potential mark-to-market adjustment (MTM Adjustment).

The key assumptions used in developing our 2019, 2018 and 2017 net periodic pension (income) expense for our U.S. plans included the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The MTM Adjustment represents the recognition of net actuarial gains or losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the fair value of plan assets or the plans’ projected benefit obligation (the corridor). Net actuarial gains and losses occur when the actual experience differs from any of the various assumptions used to value our pension plans or when assumptions change. The primary factors contributing to actuarial gains and losses are changes in the discount rate used to value pension obligations as of the measurement date each year and the difference between expected and actual returns on plan assets. The mark-to-market accounting method results in the potential for volatile and difficult to forecast MTM Adjustments. MTM charges were $123 million, $37 million and $87 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017.

We determine the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets utilizing historical plan asset returns over varying long-term periods combined with our expectations of future market conditions and asset mix considerations (see Note 21 Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the actual various asset classes and targeted asset allocation percentages for our pension plans). We plan to use an expected rate of return on plan assets of 6.15% for 2020 down from 6.75% for 2019 reflecting a decline in interest rates and additional re-balancing of assets to more fixed income.

The discount rate reflects the market rate on December 31 (measurement date) for high-quality fixed-income investments with maturities corresponding to our benefit obligations and is subject to change each year. The discount rate can be volatile from year to year as it is determined based upon prevailing interest rates as of the measurement date. We used a 3.22% discount rate to determine benefit obligations as of December 31, 2019, reflecting a decrease in the market interest rate environment since the prior year-end.

30

In addition to the potential for MTM Adjustments, changes in our expected rate of return on plan assets and discount rate resulting from economic events also affects future pension ongoing (income) expense. The following table highlights the sensitivity of our U.S. pension obligations and ongoing (income) expense to changes in these assumptions, assuming all other assumptions remain constant. These estimates exclude any potential MTM Adjustment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Pension ongoing income for our world-wide pension plans is expected to be approximately $786 million in 2020 compared with pension ongoing income of $592 million in 2019. The expected increase in pension income is primarily due to lower interest cost from a decrease in discount rates in our U.S. and UK plans, and higher expected return on plan assets (lower rate of return on a higher asset base). Also, if required, an MTM Adjustment will be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2020 in accordance with our pension accounting method as previously described. It is difficult to reliably forecast or predict whether there will be a MTM Adjustment in 2020, and if one is required, what the magnitude of such adjustment will be. MTM Adjustments are primarily driven by events and circumstances beyond the control of the Company such as changes in interest rates and the performance of the financial markets.

Finite-Lived Intangible Assets—The determination of useful lives (for depreciation/amortization purposes) and whether or not intangible assets are impaired involves the use of accounting estimates and assumptions, changes in which could materially impact our financial condition or operating performance if actual results differ from such estimates and assumptions. We evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our finite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a finite-lived intangible asset group may not be fully recoverable. The principal factors in considering when to perform an impairment review are as follows:

•Significant under-performance (i.e., declines in sales, earnings or cash flows) of a business or product line in relation to expectations;

•Annual operating plans or strategic plan outlook that indicate an unfavorable trend in operating performance of a business or product line;

•Significant negative industry or economic trends; or

•Significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets.

Once it is determined that an impairment review is necessary, recoverability of assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset grouping to the estimated future undiscounted cash flows. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows, the asset grouping is considered to be impaired. The impairment is then measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset grouping and its fair value. We endeavor to utilize the best information available to measure fair value, which is usually either market prices (if available), level 1 or level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, or an estimate of the future discounted cash flow, level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The key estimates in our discounted cash flow analysis include assumptions as to expected industry and business growth rates, sales volume, selling prices and costs, cash flows, and the discount rate selected. These estimates are subject to changes in the economic environment, including market interest rates and expected volatility. Management believes the estimates of future cash flows and fair values are reasonable; however, changes in estimates due to variance from assumptions could materially affect the valuations.

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Impairment Testing—Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to annual, or more frequent if necessary, impairment testing. In testing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, the fair value is estimated utilizing a discounted cash flow approach utilizing cash flow forecasts, including strategic and annual operating plans, adjusted for terminal value assumptions. These impairment tests involve the use of accounting estimates and assumptions, changes in which could materially impact our financial condition or operating performance if actual results differ from such estimates and assumptions. To address this uncertainty, we perform sensitivity analysis on key estimates and assumptions.

31

Income Taxes—On a recurring basis, we assess the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets by considering all available positive and negative evidence, such as past operating results, projections of future taxable income, enacted tax law changes and the feasibility and impact of tax planning initiatives. Our projections of future taxable income include a number of estimates and assumptions regarding our volume, pricing and costs, as well as the timing and amount of reversals of taxable temporary differences.

We recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities including resolution of any related appeals and litigation. We assess our income tax positions based upon our evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. 

For further discussion of additional income tax policies, see Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 5 Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Sales Recognition on Long-Term Contracts—We recognize sales for long-term contracts with performance obligations satisfied over time using either an input or output method. We recognize revenue over time as we perform on these contracts based on the continuous transfer of control to the customer. With control transferring over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. We generally use the cost-to-cost input method of progress for our contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs. Under the cost-to-cost method, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the proportion of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation. Due to the nature of the work required to be performed on many of our performance obligations, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion requires judgment. Contract revenues are largely determined by negotiated contract prices and quantities, modified by our assumptions regarding contract options, change orders, incentive and award provisions associated with technical performance and price adjustment clauses (such as inflation or index-based clauses). Cost estimates are largely based on negotiated or estimated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends and other economic projections. Significant factors that influence these estimates include inflationary trends, technical and schedule risk, internal and subcontractor performance trends, business volume assumptions, asset utilization, and anticipated labor agreements. Revenue and cost estimates are regularly monitored and revised based on changes in circumstances. Impacts from changes in estimates of net sales and cost of sales are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods based on a performance obligation’s percentage of completion. Anticipated losses on long-term contracts are recognized when such losses become evident. We maintain financial controls over the customer qualification, contract pricing and estimation processes to reduce the risk of contract losses.

OTHER MATTERS

Litigation

See Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental, asbestos and other litigation matters.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks