ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

FINANCIAL OVERVIEW

As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, on March 21, 2020, the federal tax filing deadline in the U.S. for individual 2019 tax returns was extended from April 15, 2020 to July 15, 2020, and substantially all U.S. states with an April 15 individual state income tax filing requirement similarly extended their respective deadlines. In Canada, the deadline for individuals to file was extended to June 1, 2020. In addition, governments around the world have taken a variety of actions to contain the spread of COVID-19. Jurisdictions in which we operate imposed, and continue to impose, various restrictions on our business, including capacity and other operational limitations, social distancing requirements, and in limited instances required us to close certain offices. One of our top priorities has been providing for the health and safety of our clients, associates, and franchisees, while still providing taxpayers access to help in getting their refunds during this difficult economic time. These events have impacted the typical seasonality of our business and the comparability of our financial results. Consequently, a portion of revenues and expenses that would have normally been recognized in our fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 is expected to shift to the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, 

242020 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.

however, due to our modified operating model, office closures, and competitive pressures, we may not recover all tax returns we lost in the fourth quarter in our first quarter.

We have been navigating the ever-changing landscape of the various state and local orders regarding whether our offices could stay open and how we could help our clients. We evaluated these orders on an individual basis, which at its peak resulted in nearly 20% of our office network closing to the public. In the offices that remained open, we made changes to our operating model to encourage or require clients to drop off their documents and approve online, complete virtually by uploading their documents and approve online or in-office with social distancing guidelines.

As we continue to finish out this tax season in our first quarter of fiscal year 2021 we have more offices open, increased office hours, more tax professionals, and more marketing costs than we would typically have in the first quarter. In addition, with the $2.0 billion draw on our CLOC, we will incur additional interest expense in fiscal year 2021.

 In the United States, the U.S. government enacted the CARES Act on March 27, 2020. We continue to evaluate the impacts the CARES Act and other global COVID-19 relief legislation could have on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 

A summary of our fiscal year 2020 results is as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪We recorded a pretax loss of $3.4 million due to the revenue and expense changes mentioned above.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations totaled $0.03, a decrease from $2.15 in the prior year due to the extension of the tax filing season and share repurchases.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our subsidiaries provide assisted, DIY, and virtual tax preparation solutions through multiple channels (including in-person, online and mobile applications, virtual, and desktop software) and distribute H&R Block-branded services and products, including those of our financial partners, to the general public primarily in the U.S., Canada, Australia, and their respective territories. Tax returns are either prepared by H&R Block tax professionals (in company-owned or franchise offices, virtually or via an internet review) or prepared and filed by our clients through our DIY tax solutions. We also offer small business financial solutions through our company-owned or franchise offices and online through Wave. We report a single segment that includes all of our continuing operations.

H&R Block, Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K25

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Net average charge is calculated as tax preparation fees divided by tax returns prepared. For DIY, net average charge excludes IRS Free File.

(3) Net average charge related to H&R Block Franchise Operations represents tax preparation fees collected by H&R Block franchisees divided by returns prepared in franchise offices. H&R Block will recognize a portion of franchise revenues as franchise royalties based on the terms of franchise agreements.

We provide Net Average Charge as a key operating metric because we consider it an important supplemental measure useful to analysts, investors, and other interested parties as it provides insights into pricing and tax return mix relative to our customer base, which are significant drivers of revenue. Our definition of Net Average Charge may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.

262020 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) See "Non-GAAP Financial Information" at the end of this item for a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures. 

H&R Block, Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K27

FISCAL 2020 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2019 

Revenues decreased $455.2 million, or 14.7%, compared to the prior year primarily due to the extension of the tax filing deadlines as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. U.S. assisted tax preparation fees decreased $325.7 million, or 17.5%, and U.S. royalties decreased $50.1 million, or 20.6%, due to decreases in tax returns prepared and net average charge. U.S. DIY tax preparation fees decreased $52.5 million, or 20.1%, due to lower online volumes and lower software sales, and international revenues declined $40.5 million, or 18.4%, due to lower tax returns prepared in our Canadian operations. 

Revenues of $36.7 million were recognized by Wave, which we acquired on June 28, 2019, and therefore were not included in our results of operations in the prior year period.

Total operating expenses increased $83.5 million or 3.4% from the prior year. Total compensation and benefits decreased $75.8 million, or 6.6%, due to lower commission-based wages in our field related to the decline in tax return volumes, lower bonus accruals and payroll taxes, somewhat offset by additional wages related to the acquisition of Wave in the current year. Marketing expenses decreased $14.7 million, or 5.5%, based on planned decreases in our marketing spend. Also due to the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, we recorded an impairment of goodwill of $106.0 million related to Wave. See discussion in Item 8, note 6 for additional information.

Other expenses increased $49.4 million, or 11.7%. The components of other expenses are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consulting and outsourced services increased $10.4 million primarily due to additional resources for our technology initiatives. Bank partner fees increased $7.9 million due to higher Refund Advance origination fees and accruals for our credit loss guarantees. Credit card and bank charges increased $18.1 million primarily due to the acquisition of Wave which were slightly offset by lower fees in our tax operations due to the decline in tax returns. Legal fees increased $17.0 million due to fees associated with ongoing legal matters, as discussed in Item 8, note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.

Losses of our discontinued mortgage operations are primarily related to legal expenses which are lower in the current year. See the discussion of the risk of contingent losses related to our discontinued operations in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and in Item 8, note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.

FISCAL 2019 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2018 

The comparison of fiscal year 2019 to 2018 has been omitted from this Form 10–K, but can be found in our Form 10–K for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2019, filed on June 14, 2019.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 

We consider the estimates discussed below to be critical to understanding our financial statements, as they require the use of significant judgment and estimation in order to measure, at a specific point in time, matters that are inherently uncertain. Specific methods and assumptions for these critical accounting estimates are described in the following paragraphs. We have reviewed and discussed each of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. For all of these estimates, we caution that future events rarely develop precisely as forecasted and estimates routinely require adjustment and may require material adjustment.

282020 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.

See Item 8, note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, which discusses accounting policies and new or proposed accounting standards that may affect our financial reporting in the future.

LITIGATION AND OTHER RELATED CONTINGENCIES – 

Nature of Estimates Required. We accrue liabilities related to certain legal matters for which we believe it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of such loss can be reasonably estimated. Assessing the likely outcome of pending or threatened litigation, indemnification and contribution claims, and other related loss contingencies, including the amount of potential loss, if any, is highly subjective. 

Assumptions and Approach Used. We are subject to pending or threatened litigation claims and claims for indemnification and contribution, and other related loss contingencies, which are described in Item 8, note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. It is our policy to routinely assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes related to legal matters, as well as ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of the liability required to be accrued, if any, for these contingencies is made after analysis of each known issue and an analysis of historical experience. In cases where we have concluded that a loss is only reasonably possible or remote, or is not reasonably estimable, no liability is accrued. 

Sensitivity of Estimate to Change. It is reasonably possible that future litigation and other related loss contingencies may vary from the amounts accrued. Our estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses includes (1) matters where a liability has been accrued and there is a reasonably possible loss in excess of the amount accrued for that liability, and (2) matters where a liability has not been accrued but we believe a loss is reasonably possible. This aggregate range represents only those losses as to which we are currently able to estimate a reasonably possible loss or range of loss. It does not represent our maximum loss exposure. As of April 30, 2020, we believe the estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses in excess of amounts accrued, where the range of loss can be estimated, was not material.

However, our judgments on whether a loss is probable, reasonably possible, or remote, and our estimates of probable loss amounts may differ from actual results due to difficulties in predicting changes in, or interpretations of, laws, predicting the outcome of jury trials, arbitration hearings, settlement discussions and related activity, predicting the outcome of class certification actions, and numerous other uncertainties. Due to the number of claims which are periodically asserted against us, and the magnitude of damages sought in those claims, actual losses in the future may significantly differ from our current estimates. 

INCOME TAXES – UNCERTAIN TAX POSITIONS –

Nature of Estimates Required. The income tax laws of jurisdictions in which we operate are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and applicable government taxing authorities. Income tax returns filed by us are based on our interpretation of these rules. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which may result in proposed assessments, including interest or penalties. We accrue a liability for unrecognized tax benefits arising from uncertain tax positions reflecting our judgment as to the ultimate resolution of the applicable issues. 

Assumptions and Approach Used. Differences between a tax position taken or expected to be taken in our tax returns and the amount of benefit recorded in our financial statements result in unrecognized tax benefits. Unrecognized tax benefits are recorded in the balance sheet as either a liability or reductions to recorded tax assets as applicable. Our uncertain tax positions arise from items such as apportionment of income for state purposes, transfer pricing, and the deductibility of related party transactions. We evaluate each uncertain tax position based on its technical merits. For each position, we consider all applicable information including relevant tax laws, the taxing authorities' potential position, our tax return position, and the possible settlement outcomes to determine the amount of liability to record. In making this determination, we assume the tax authority has all relevant information at its disposal. 

Sensitivity of Estimate to Change. Our assessment of the technical merits and measurement of tax benefits associated with uncertain tax positions is subject to a high degree of judgment and estimation. Actual results may differ from our current judgments due to a variety of factors, including changes in law, interpretations of law by taxing authorities that differ from our assessments, changes in the jurisdictions in which we operate and results of routine tax examinations. We believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these 

H&R Block, Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K29

matters. However, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made or resolved, or when statutes of limitation on potential assessments expire. As a result, our effective tax rate may fluctuate on a quarterly basis. 

See the additional discussion in Item 8, note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.

GOODWILL –

Nature of Estimates Required. We test goodwill for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change which would, more likely than not, reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Our goodwill impairment analysis utilizes both the income and market approaches, which includes revenue and expense forecasts, changes in working capital and selection of a discount rate, all of which are highly subjective. 

Assumptions and Approach Used. Our goodwill impairment analysis is performed at the reporting unit level. Our valuation methods include a discounted cash flow model for the income approach and the guideline public company and market capitalization methods for the market approach. The income approach requires significant management judgment with respect to revenue and expense forecasts, anticipated changes in working capital and selection of an appropriate discount rate. Changes in projections or assumptions could materially affect our estimate of reporting unit fair values. The use of different assumptions could increase or decrease estimated discounted future operating cash flows and could affect our conclusion regarding the existence or amount of potential impairment.

Sensitivity of Estimate to Change. Estimates of fair value may be adversely impacted by declining economic conditions and changes in the industries and markets in which we operate. Additionally, if future operating results of our reporting units are below our current modeled expectations, fair value estimates may decline. Any of these factors could result in future impairments, and those impairments could be significant.

We recorded a goodwill impairment loss of $106.0 million related to our Wave reporting unit in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020. The remaining balance of goodwill for the Wave reporting unit, inclusive of unrealized foreign currency translation losses, was $169.8 million. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on small businesses, Wave has experienced lower than expected revenues since mid-March. To the extent the small business market does not rebound as expected there could be further impairment in future years.

See the additional discussion in Item 8, note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

See Item 8, note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

These comments should be read in conjunction with the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of cash flows included in Item 8.

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY – 

OVERVIEW – Our primary sources of capital and liquidity include cash from operations (including changes in working capital), draws on our CLOC, and issuances of debt. We use our sources of liquidity primarily to fund working capital, service and repay debt, pay dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock, and acquire businesses. 

Our operations are highly seasonal and substantially all of our revenues and cash flow are generated during the period from February through April in a typical year. Therefore, we normally require the use of cash to fund losses and working capital needs, periodically resulting in a working capital deficit, from May through January. We typically have relied on available cash balances from the prior tax season and borrowings to meet liquidity needs in our first three quarters. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, on March 21, 2020, the federal tax filing deadline for individual 2019 tax returns was extended from April 15, 2020 to July 15, 2020, and substantially all U.S. states with an April 15 individual state income tax filing requirement similarly extended their respective deadlines. In Canada, the deadline for individuals to file was extended to June 1, 2020. These extensions have impacted the typical seasonality of our business and the comparability of our financial results.

302020 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.

In our fiscal fourth quarter, we drew down the full $2.0 billion available under our CLOC to increase our cash position and maximize flexibility in light of the uncertainty surrounding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.

In the absence of any unexpected developments, our existing sources of capital as of April 30, 2020 are sufficient to meet our future operating and financing needs.

DISCUSSION OF CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS – The following table summarizes our statements of cash flows for fiscal years 2020 and 2019. See Item 8 for the complete consolidated statements of cash flows for these periods.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities. Cash provided by operating activities decreased $497.6 million from fiscal year 2019. The decrease from the prior year was primarily due to a net loss in the current year, compared to net income in the prior year.

Investing Activities. Cash used in investing activities totaled $470.2 million compared to $155.1 million in the prior year. This change resulted primarily from the acquisition of Wave, partially offset by the receipt of cash on an available-for-sale debt security in the current year.

Financing Activities. Cash provided by financing activities totaled $1.5 billion compared to cash used of $403.7 million in the prior year, primarily due to a $2.0 billion draw on our CLOC in the current year.

CASH REQUIREMENTS –

Dividends and Share Repurchase. Returning capital to shareholders in the form of dividends and the repurchase of outstanding shares has historically been a significant component of our capital allocation plan.

We have consistently paid quarterly dividends. Dividends paid totaled $204.9 million and $205.5 million in fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. Although we have historically paid dividends and plan to continue to do so, there can be no assurances that circumstances will not change in the future that could affect our ability or decisions to pay dividends.

Our current share repurchase program has remaining authorization of $751.8 million which is effective through June 2022. As a part of the repurchase program, in the current year, we purchased $246.8 million of our common stock at an average price of $24.36 per share. 

Share repurchases may be effectuated through open market transactions, some of which may be effectuated under SEC Rule 10b5-1. The Company may cancel, suspend, or extend the time period for the purchase of shares at any time. Any repurchases will be funded primarily through available cash and cash from operations. Although we may continue to repurchase shares, there is no assurance that we will purchase up to the full Board authorization.

Capital Investment. Capital expenditures totaled $81.7 million and $95.5 million in fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our capital expenditures relate primarily to recurring improvements to retail offices, as well as investments in computers, software and related assets. In addition to our capital expenditures, we also made payments to acquire businesses. We acquired Wave and franchisee and competitor businesses totaling $450.2 million in the current year compared to franchisee and competitor businesses totaling $43.6 million in the prior year. See Item 8, note 6 for additional information on our acquisitions. 

FINANCING RESOURCES – In order to strengthen our liquidity and ensure maximum flexibility, during our fourth quarter we drew the full amount of our $2.0 billion CLOC. We had $2.0 billion outstanding on our CLOC as of April 30, 2020, and therefore will incur additional interest expense in fiscal year 2021.

H&R Block, Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K31

Our financial results for fiscal year 2020 were negatively impacted by the extension of the tax filing season due to the COVID-19 pandemic and as of April 30, 2020, we were not in compliance with the debt-to-EBITDA ratio covenant related to the CLOC. On May 22, 2020 we obtained a waiver of the debt-to-EBITDA ratio covenant for the period ended April 30, 2020. We expect to be in compliance with our CLOC covenants each quarter in fiscal year 2021. 

Our Senior Notes due in October 2020 are classified as a current liability as of April 30, 2020. We are considering various financing options in regard to the maturing Senior Notes and anticipate these options will provide adequate liquidity to refinance the Senior Notes due in October 2020 at or prior to maturity. If we elect to obtain new debt or refinance existing debt in the future, the terms and availability of such financing may be impacted by economic and financial market conditions, as well as our financial condition, results of operations, and credit ratings at the time we seek additional financing. Though we expect to be able to obtain any desired debt financing in the future, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain such financing on terms that will be acceptable or advantageous to us.

See Item 8, note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of the Senior Notes and our CLOC. 

The following table provides ratings for debt issued by Block Financial LLC (Block Financial) as of April 30, 2020 and 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CASH AND OTHER ASSETS – As of April 30, 2020, we held cash and cash equivalents, excluding restricted amounts, of $2.7 billion, including $107.6 million held by our foreign subsidiaries. 

Foreign Operations. Seasonal borrowing needs of our Canadian operations are typically funded by our U.S. operations. To mitigate foreign currency risk, we sometimes enter into foreign exchange forward contracts. There were no forward contracts outstanding as of April 30, 2020. 

We do not currently intend to repatriate non-borrowed funds held by our foreign subsidiaries in a manner that would trigger a material tax liability. 

The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates during the period on our international cash balances resulted in a decrease of $5.3 million during fiscal year 2020 compared to $3.7 million in fiscal year 2019. 

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS – A summary of our borrowings and known or estimated contractual obligations as of April 30, 2020, and the timing and effect that such commitments are expected to have on our liquidity and capital requirements in future periods is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The interest rate on the outstanding CLOC draw is fixed through September 21, 2020, and if not repaid by that time would reprice based on rates available to us at that time. Interest has only been included for the known amount due September 21, 2020.

The table above does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $168.1 million due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the future cash flows associated with these amounts.  

EAs are originated by Axos and are offered from mid-November to mid-January. We purchase a 90% participation interest, at par, in all EAs originated by Axos in accordance with our participation agreement. 

322020 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.

See discussion of contractual obligations and commitments in Item 8, within the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

SUMMARIZED GUARANTOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – Block Financial is a 100% owned subsidiary of the H&R Block, Inc. Block Financial is the Issuer and H&R Block, Inc. is the full and unconditional Guarantor of our Senior Notes, CLOC and other indebtedness issued from time to time. 

The following table presents summarized financial information for H&R Block, Inc. (Guarantor) and Block Financial (Issuer) on a combined basis after intercompany eliminations and excludes investments in and equity earnings in non-guarantor subsidiaries.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The table above reflects$3.6 billion of non-current intercompany receivables due to the Issuer from non-guarantor subsidiaries. 

REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT – The federal government, various state, local, provincial and foreign governments, and some self-regulatory organizations have enacted statutes and ordinances, or adopted rules and regulations, regulating aspects of our business. These aspects include, but are not limited to, commercial income tax return preparers, income tax courses, the electronic filing of income tax returns, the offering of RTs, privacy and data security, consumer protection, advertising, franchising, antitrust and competition, sales methods and banking. We work to comply with those laws that are applicable to us or our services or products, and we continue to monitor developments in the regulatory environment in which we operate.

On November 17, 2017, the CFPB published its final rule changing the regulation of certain consumer credit products, including payday loans, vehicle title loans, and high-cost installment loans (Payday Rule). Certain limited provisions of the Payday Rule became effective on January 16, 2018, but most provisions were scheduled to go into effect on August 19, 2019. On November 6, 2018, a judge from the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas issued a stay of the August 19, 2019 compliance date until further notice from the Court. On February 6, 2019, the CFPB issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to delay the August 19, 2019 compliance date for the mandatory underwriting provisions of the Payday Rule for 15 months, until November 19, 2020. Also on February 6, 2019, the CFPB issued a separate notice of proposed rulemaking to rescind the Payday Rule’s mandatory underwriting requirements, including the ability to repay determination, for certain loans. On June 6, 2019, the CFPB issued a final rule delaying the August 19, 2019 compliance date for the mandatory underwriting provisions until November 19, 2020.

Given these judicial and regulatory developments, we are unsure whether, when, or in what form the Payday Rule may go into effect. The outcomes of the rulemaking process and litigation are unclear. Depending on how the Payday Rule is revised during the pending rulemaking process, the Payday Rule may have a material adverse impact on the Emerald AdvanceTM product, our business, and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash 

H&R Block, Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K33

flows. We will continue to analyze the potential impact on the Company as the court case and the CFPB’s pending rulemaking process progress.

From time to time, we receive inquiries from governmental authorities regarding the applicability of laws to our services and products and other matters relating to our business. We cannot predict what effect future laws, changes in interpretations of existing laws or the results of future governmental inquiries with respect to services and products or other matters relating to our business may have on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have received certain governmental inquiries relating to the IRS Free File Program. We may also be subject to future inquiries or other proceedings regarding this program or other aspects of our business. Regulatory inquiries may result in the incurrence of additional expense, diversion of management's attention, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. See additional discussion of legal matters in Item 8, note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Because these measures are not measures of financial performance under GAAP and are susceptible to varying calculations, they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures for other companies.

We consider our non-GAAP financial measures to be performance measures and a useful metric for management and investors to evaluate and compare the ongoing operating performance of our business.

We make adjustments for certain non-GAAP financial measures related to amortization of intangibles from acquisitions and goodwill impairments. We believe removing the impacts of amortization of acquired intangibles and goodwill impairments provides a more meaningful indicator of performance and will assist in understanding our financial results.

We may consider whether other significant items that arise in the future should be excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures.

We measure the performance of our business using a variety of metrics, including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) from continuing operations, adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations, EBITDA margin from continuing operations, adjusted EBITDA margin from continuing operations, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations and free cash flow. We also use EBITDA from continuing operations and pretax income of continuing operations, each subject to permitted adjustments, as performance metrics in incentive compensation calculations for our employees.

342020 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.

The following is a reconciliation of net income (loss) to EBITDA from continuing operations and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations, which are non-GAAP financial measures:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) EBITDA margin from continuing operations is computed as EBITDA from continuing operations divided by revenues from continuing operations.

(2) Adjusted EBITDA margin from continuing operations is computed as adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations divided by revenues from continuing operations.

The following is a reconciliation of our results from continuing operations to our adjusted results from continuing operations, which are non-GAAP financial measures:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The tax effect of adjustments is the difference between the tax provision calculation on a GAAP basis and on an adjusted non-GAAP basis.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK