ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

INTEREST RATE RISK

GENERAL – We have a formal investment policy that strives to minimize the market risk exposure of our cash equivalents, which are primarily affected by credit quality and movements in interest rates. The guidelines in our investment policy focus on managing liquidity and preserving principal and earnings.

Our cash equivalents are primarily held for liquidity purposes and are comprised of high quality, short-term investments, including money market funds. Because our cash and cash equivalents have a short maturity, our portfolio's market value is relatively insensitive to interest rate changes.

H&R Block, Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K35

Generally, our CLOC borrowings are seasonal, and interest rate risk typically increases through our third fiscal quarter and is largely eliminated by fiscal year end. In order to strengthen our liquidity and ensure maximum flexibility, during our fourth quarter we drew the full amount of our $2.0 billion CLOC, which remained outstanding as of April 30, 2020. The interest rate on the outstanding CLOC draw is fixed through September 21, 2020, and if not repaid by that time would reprice based on rates available to us at that time. While the market value of our CLOC borrowings is relatively insensitive to interest rate changes, interest expense on CLOC borrowings will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates.

A portion of our long-term debt consists of fixed-rate Senior Notes; therefore, a change in interest rates would have no impact on consolidated pretax earnings until these notes mature or are refinanced. The fixed-rate interest payable on our Senior Notes is subject to adjustment based upon our credit ratings. Our Senior Notes due in October 2020 are classified as a current liability as of April 30, 2020. We are considering various financing options in regard to the maturing Senior Notes and anticipate these options will provide adequate liquidity to refinance the Senior Notes due in October 2020 at or prior to maturity. If we elect to obtain new debt or refinance existing debt in the future, the terms and availability of such financing may be impacted by economic and financial market conditions, as well as our financial condition, results of operations, and credit ratings at the time we seek additional financing. 

FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE RISK

Our operations in international markets are exposed to movements in currency exchange rates. The currencies primarily involved are the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar. We translate revenues and expenses related to these operations at the average of exchange rates in effect during the period. Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates prevailing at the end of the year. Translation adjustments are recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income in stockholders' equity. Translation of financial results into U.S. dollars does not presently materially affect, and has not historically materially affected, our consolidated financial results, although such changes do affect the year-to-year comparability of the operating results in U.S. dollars of our international businesses. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates during the period on our international cash balances resulted in a decrease of $5.3 million during fiscal year 2020 compared to $3.7 million in fiscal year 2019. We estimate a 10% change in foreign exchange rates by itself would impact consolidated pretax income in fiscal years 2020 and 2019 by $12.2 million and $2.5 million, respectively, and cash balances, excluding restricted balances, as of April 30, 2020 and 2019 by $9.9 million and $9.4 million, respectively. 

We generally use foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk for loans we advance to our Canadian operations. We had no forward contracts outstanding at April 30, 2020 or 2019.

362020 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA