PART I

Item 1.Business

The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. ("Interpublic," the "Company," "IPG," "we," "us" or "our") was incorporated in Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by Harrison K. McCann. The Company has operated under the Interpublic name since January 1961.

About Us

We are one of the world’s premier global advertising and marketing services companies. With approximately 54,300 employees and operations in all major world markets, our companies specialize in consumer advertising, digital marketing, communications planning and media buying, public relations, specialized communications disciplines and data management. Our agencies create customized marketing solutions for clients that range in scale from large global marketers to regional and local clients. Comprehensive global services are critical to effectively serve our multinational and local clients in markets throughout the world as they seek to build brands, increase sales of their products and services, and gain market share.

The work we produce for our clients is specific to their unique needs. Our solutions vary from project-based activity involving one agency to long-term, fully integrated campaigns created by multiple IPG agencies working together. With offices in over 100 countries, we can operate in a single region or deliver global integrated programs.

The role of our holding company is to provide resources and support to ensure that our agencies can best meet clients’ needs and to selectively facilitate collaborative client service among our agencies. Based in New York City, our holding company sets company-wide financial objectives and corporate strategy, establishes financial management and operational controls, guides personnel policy, directs collaborative inter-agency programs, conducts investor relations, manages environmental, social and governance (ESG) programs, provides enterprise risk management and oversees mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we provide certain centralized functional services that offer our companies operational efficiencies, including accounting and finance, executive compensation management and recruitment assistance, employee benefits, marketing information retrieval and analysis, internal audit, legal services, real estate expertise and travel services.

IPG ranked as one of the best-managed companies of 2019, according to The Management Top 250 ranking, and was the only company from the advertising industry included in the list. Developed by the Drucker Institute and The Wall Street Journal, the ranking measures corporate effectiveness by examining performance in customer satisfaction, employee engagement and development, innovation, social responsibility and financial strength. Additionally, IPG was named a top company to work for by LinkedIn and was the highest-ranked company in the advertising sector on the list of the 50 most sought-after companies where Americans want to work and develop their careers.

Our Brands

Interpublic is home to some of the world’s best-known and most innovative communications specialists. We have three global networks: McCann Worldgroup, Foote, Cone & Belding ("FCB") and MullenLowe Group, which provide integrated, large-scale advertising and marketing solutions for clients. Our Media, Data and Technology offerings are comprised of Mediabrands' global media services, Acxiom's data and technology capabilities, and Kinesso's data-driven marketing solutions. We also have a range of best-in-class global specialized communications assets as well as premier domestic integrated and global digital agencies that are industry leaders.

•Media, Data and Technology offerings provide strategic media planning and buying services as well as data management and leading marketing technology services. Our media services agencies manage tens of billions of dollars in marketing investment on behalf of their clients, providing strategic counsel and advisory services to navigate the fast-evolving consumer and media landscape. Full-service global media agencies within the Mediabrands network include UM and Initiative. Additional leading brands and specialist business units include Healix, IPG Media Lab, MAGNA, Orion Holdings, Rapport and Reprise. Media solutions are developed and executed through integrated, data-driven marketing strategies. Acxiom, which IPG acquired in 2018, provides the data foundation for many of the world’s largest and most sophisticated marketers. Acxiom's solutions help clients organize, cleanse and store data in a responsible and ethical manner, and enhances our ability to provide data-driven marketing insights to our clients. Kinesso, the marketing technology company IPG launched in October of 2019, provides the tools and services required to help marketers make traditional and addressable media activation faster, better and more effective through the use of data.

•McCann Worldgroup is a leading global marketing solutions network united across 100+ countries by a single vision: to help brands play a meaningful role in people's lives. McCann was recognized by Cannes Lions as the 2019 Network of 

2

the Year and by the Effies as the world's most creatively-effective marketing services company in 2019. The network is comprised of McCann (advertising), MRM (science/technology/relationship marketing), Momentum Worldwide (total brand experience), McCann Health (professional/dtc communications), and CRAFT (production). McCann is aligned with our marketing services agencies including Weber Shandwick (public relations) and FutureBrand (consulting/design).

•FCB is a global marketing communications company, named to the Ad Age Agency A-List in 2019. Based on an understanding of diversified markets and cultures, FCB focuses on creating “Never Finished” ideas for clients that reflect each brand’s past and anticipate its future. FCB also offers a range of best-in-class, integrated and specialist marketing capabilities: FCB Health, one of the world’s most awarded healthcare marketing networks; shopper-first agency FCB/RED; design agency Chute Gerdeman; experiential agency FCBX; production studios Lord + Thomas and FuelContent; CRM agency FCB/SIX; and digital agency New Honor Society.

•MullenLowe Group is a creatively driven integrated marketing communications network with a strong entrepreneurial heritage and challenger mentality. A global creative boutique of distinctive diverse agencies, MullenLowe Group is networked in more than 65 markets. Within the Group's distinctive hyperbundled-operating model, global specializations include expertise in brand strategy, and through-the-line advertising with MullenLowe; digital transformation with MullenLowe Profero; media and communications planning and buying with Mediahub; customer experience activation with MullenLowe Open; and consumer and corporate PR with MullenLowe PR and MullenLowe salt. The group is focused on delivering an “Unfair Share of Attention” for clients and is consistently ranked among the most awarded creative and effective agency networks in the world. Mediahub was named Ad Age Media Agency of the Year in 2019.

•Our CMG group has exceptional global marketing specialists across a range of disciplines, including industry-leading public relations agencies such as Weber Shandwick, Golin, DeVries Global, Axis, and Current Global have expertise in every significant area of communication management. Jack Morton is a global brand experience agency, and FutureBrand is a leading brand consultancy. Octagon is a global sports, entertainment and lifestyle marketing agency. 

•Our domestic integrated independent and digital specialist agencies include some of advertising's most recognizable and storied agency brands, including Carmichael Lynch, Deutsch, Hill Holliday, Huge, R/GA and The Martin Agency. The marketing programs created by these agencies incorporate all media channels, CRM, public relations and other digital marketing activities and have helped build some of the most powerful brands in the U.S., across all sectors and industries.

We list approximately 100 of our companies on our website under the "Our Companies" section, with descriptions, capabilities and office locations for each. To learn more about our broad range of capabilities, visit our website at www.interpublic.com. Information on our website is not part of this report.

Market Strategy

We operate in a media landscape that continues to evolve at a rapid pace. Media channels continue to fragment, and clients face an increasingly complex consumer environment. To stay ahead of these challenges and to achieve our objectives, we have made and continue to make investments in creative, strategic and technology talent in areas including fast-growth digital marketing channels, high-growth geographic regions and strategic world markets. In addition, we consistently review opportunities within our Company to enhance our operations through acquisitions and strategic alliances and internal programs that encourage intra-company collaboration. As appropriate, we also develop relationships with technology and emerging media companies that are building leading-edge marketing tools that complement our agencies' skill sets and capabilities.

In recent years, we have taken several major strategic steps to position our agencies as leaders in the global advertising and communications market. These include:

•Investment in leading talent: We believe our continued ability to attract and develop top talent and to be the industry’s employer of choice for an increasingly diverse workforce have been key differentiators for IPG. We continue to acquire and develop top strategic, creative and digital talent from a range of backgrounds.

•Growing digital capabilities: Our investments in talent and technology - organically growing digital capabilities such as search, social, user experience (UX), content creation, analytics, and mobile across the portfolio - promise to drive further growth in this dynamic sector of our business. We continue to internationalize our powerful digital specialist agencies.

•Data-fueled offerings: Media and marketing is increasingly centered around the ability to manage data to create deeper direct customer relationships. Acxiom provides the tools to help our clients connect with individual consumers at scale. Kinesso furthers this vision by bringing together top data and technology talent with addressable media experts to develop software that amplifies clients' marketing and leverages Acxiom’s assets and capabilities.

•Investments in emerging and strategic markets: We strengthen our position in global markets by driving organic growth as well as completing strategic acquisitions in Asia, the U.K., Europe, Latin America, and North America.

3

•Integrated marketing solutions: A differentiating aspect of our business is our utilization of “open architecture” solutions that integrate the best talent from throughout the organization to fulfill the needs of our clients.

Together, these steps have built a culture of strategic creativity and high performance across IPG, resulting in IPG posting strong organic growth, as well as increased honors and awards for our Company.

For the third year in a row, IPG was recognized as the Holding Company of the Year at the North American Effie Awards; McCann Worldgroup was named Most Effective Agency Office of the Year and its "22 Years of Priceless" work for Mastercard was awarded a "5 for 50" award, marking Effie's 50th Anniversary. At the 2019 Cannes Lions Festival of Creativity, IPG agencies dominated at the festival and took home 11 of the Festival's highest honor, the Grand Prix. IPG agencies won over a third of all Grand Prix awarded in 2019, and more than all other global holding companies combined. McCann Worldgroup won five Grand Prix in Brand Experience & Activation, Industry Craft, Pharma and Health & Wellness categories as the Festival named McCann Worldgroup as Network of the Year, McCann Health the Healthcare Network of the Year, and McCann Health China the Healthcare Agency of the Year. FCB took home five Grand Prix in the Direct, Creative Data, Innovation, Titanium, and Mobile categories. UM received its first-ever Grand Prix in the Entertainment category. In total, IPG agencies won 163 Cannes Lions, including 11 Grand Prix, one Titanium, 38 Gold Lions, 44 Silver Lions, and 69 Bronze Lions.

Our specialty marketing firms received top honors at the 2019 PRWeek Global Awards. Weber Shandwick was the most awarded agency, winning a total of six awards, including four in partnership with clients: Best Campaign in Asia-Pacific, Corporate and Social Responsibility, Global Citizenship and Issues and Crisis. Golin was named “Agency of the Year” and DeVries Global, dna Communications and McCann were also among awards recipients. The PRWeek Global Awards celebrate the best campaigns, people and organizations involved in cross-region communications.

In the U.S. market, IPG once again led the industry in Ad Age’s annual "A-List," a ranking of the industry's ten most innovative and creative agencies. FCB and McCann ranked among the industry's best-performing agencies and Mediahub was named the "Media Agency of the Year." Additionally, FCB/Six was named the "Data/Analytics Agency of the Year" and Initiative as the "Comeback Agency of the Year." IPG agencies EP+Co., The Martin Agency, MullenLowe and UM were also identified as "Agency Standouts" and R/GA as "Agencies To Watch" in the awards issue. Ad Age selects agencies based on account wins, quality of work and business results delivered on behalf of their clients. 

Digital Growth

Demand for our digital marketing services continues to evolve rapidly. In order to meet this need and provide high-value resources to clients, we have focused on embedding digital talent and technology throughout the organization. This reflects our belief that digital marketing should be integrated within all of our companies. This structure mirrors the way in which consumers incorporate digital media into their other media habits and, ultimately, their daily lives. We continue to invest in recruiting and developing digital expertise at all our agencies and in all marketing disciplines.

To meet the changing needs of the marketplace, we have been active in making new acquisitions and minority investments in specialty digital assets. In addition, we have consistently invested in existing assets such as the IPG Media Lab, Huge, MRM and R/GA, which serve as key digital partners to many of the agencies within IPG.

Emerging Economies and Strategic Regions

We continue to invest and expand our presence in emerging and strategic geographic regions. In recent years, we have made significant investments in Brazil, India and China, further strengthening our position in these important developing markets. Our operations in India are best-in-class, and we will continue to invest in partnerships and talent in this key market. We also hold a majority stake in the Middle East Communication Networks (“MCN”), among the region's premier marketing services companies. MCN is headquartered in Dubai, with offices across 12 countries. In China, where we operate with most of our global networks and across the full spectrum of marketing services, we continue to invest organically in the talent of our agency brands and opportunistically acquire specialty offerings. Additional areas of investment include key strategic markets in North America, the U.K., Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Africa.

Diversity and Inclusion

IPG and our agencies are committed to diversity and inclusion, and we reinforce these values through a comprehensive set of award-winning programs. These include business resource groups that develop career building programs, as well as training around topics like unconscious bias. We seek to ensure accountability by tying executive compensation directly to the ability of our leaders to hire, promote and retain diverse talent, and we regularly measure the inclusiveness of our culture with a company-wide climate for inclusion survey.

We began our formal programs over a decade ago. Since then, IPG has seen dramatic improvements in the diversity of our workforce, and further progress is a management priority. In the U.S., IPG exceeded the ad industry’s representation rates for 

4

women and minorities for both professional-level and management positions in the most recent filings. We believe that an environment that encourages respect and trust is key to a creative business like ours, and that a competitive advantage comes with having a variety of perspectives and beliefs in our workforce.

Acquisition Strategy

A disciplined acquisition strategy, focused on high-growth capabilities and regions of the world, is one component of growing our services in today's rapidly-changing marketing services and media landscape. When an outstanding resource or a strong tactical fit becomes available, we have been opportunistic over the years in making tuck-in, niche acquisitions that enhance our service offerings. 

In recent years, IPG has acquired agencies across the marketing spectrum, including firms specializing in digital, mobile marketing, social media, healthcare communications and public relations, as well as agencies with full-service capabilities. These acquired agencies have been integrated into one of our global networks or specialist agencies. In 2019, we completed one acquisition, a content communications agency based in the United Kingdom. In 2018, we pursued and completed the transformative acquisition of Acxiom. By adding Acxiom to our offering, we have positioned our company for a future in which data-driven marketing solutions are increasingly core to brands' success. With Acxiom, we go to market as a trusted, high-value partner that will deliver on the promise of combining data management and marketing services to drive personalized marketing solutions at scale and measurable business outcomes for our clients.

Financial Objectives

Our financial goals include competitive organic net revenue growth and expansion of EBITA margin, as defined and discussed within the Non-GAAP Financial Measure section of this MD&A, which we expect will further strengthen our balance sheet and total liquidity and increase value to our shareholders. Accordingly, we remain focused on meeting the evolving needs of our clients while concurrently managing our cost structure. We continually seek greater efficiency in the delivery of our services, focusing on more effective resource utilization, including the productivity of our employees, real estate, information technology and shared services, such as finance, human resources and legal. The improvements we have made and continue to make in our financial reporting and business information systems in recent years allow us more timely and actionable insights from our global operations. Our disciplined approach to our balance sheet and liquidity provides us with a solid financial foundation and financial flexibility to manage and grow our business. We believe that our strategy and execution position us to meet our financial goals and to deliver long-term shareholder value.

Financial Reporting Segments

We have two reportable segments, which are Integrated Agency Networks (“IAN”) and Constituency Management Group (“CMG”). IAN is comprised of McCann Worldgroup, FCB, MullenLowe Group, Media, Data and Technology which includes Mediabrands and Acxiom, our digital specialist agencies and our domestic integrated agencies. CMG is comprised of a number of our specialist marketing services offerings. We also report results for the “Corporate and other” group. See Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further information.

Sources of Revenue

Our revenues are primarily derived from the planning and execution of multi-channel advertising, marketing and communications programs around the world. Our revenues are directly dependent upon the advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements of our existing clients and our ability to win new clients. Most of our client contracts are individually negotiated, and, accordingly, the terms of client engagements and the bases on which we earn commissions and fees vary significantly. As is customary in the industry, our contracts generally provide for termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually 30 to 90 days, although our data management contracts typically have non-cancelable terms of more than one year.

Revenues for the creation and production of advertising or the planning and placement of media are determined primarily on a negotiated fee basis and, to a lesser extent, on a commission basis. Fees are usually calculated to reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead and a mark-up. Many clients include an incentive compensation component in their total compensation package. This provides added revenue based on achieving mutually agreed-upon qualitative or quantitative metrics within specified time periods. Commissions are earned based on services provided. 

We also generate revenue from data and technology offerings and in negotiated fees from our public relations, sales promotion, event marketing, sports and entertainment marketing, and corporate and brand identity services.

5

In most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on behalf of clients, as is customary in the advertising and marketing industries. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges after we have received funds from our clients, and in some instances we agree with the provider that we will only be liable to pay the production and media costs after the client has paid us for the charges. Generally, we act as the client’s agent rather than the primary obligor in these arrangements.

Our revenue is typically lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Clients

Our large and diverse client base includes many of the most recognizable companies and brands throughout the world. Our holding company structure allows us to maintain a diversified client base across and within a full range of industry sectors. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on net revenue accounted for approximately 17% of net revenue in 2019 and 18% in 2018. Our largest client accounted for approximately 3% of net revenue in 2019 and 4% of net revenue in 2018. Based on net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019, our largest client sectors (in alphabetical order) were auto and transportation, healthcare and technology and telecom. We represent several different clients, brands or divisions within each of these sectors in a number of geographic markets, as well as provide services across multiple advertising and marketing disciplines, in each case through more than one of our agency brands. Representation of a client rarely means that we handle advertising for all brands or product lines of the client in all geographical locations. Any client may transfer its business from one of our agencies to another one of our agencies or to a competing agency, and a client may change its marketing budget at any time.

We operate in a highly competitive advertising and marketing communications industry. Our operating companies compete against other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies as well as numerous independent and niche agencies and new forms of market participants to win new clients and maintain existing client relationships.

Regulatory Environment

The advertising and marketing services that our agencies provide are subject to governmental regulation and other action in all of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. While these governmental regulations and other actions can impact the Company’s operations, the specific marketing regulations we may face in a given market do not as a general matter significantly impact the Company’s overall service offerings or the nature in which we provide these services.

Governments, government agencies and industry self-regulatory bodies have adopted laws, regulations and standards, and judicial bodies have issued rulings, that directly or indirectly affect the form and content of advertising, public relations and other marketing activities we produce or conduct on behalf of our clients. These laws, regulations and other actions include content-related rules with respect to specific products and services, restrictions on media scheduling and placement, and labeling or warning requirements with respect to certain products, for example pharmaceuticals, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes and other tobacco products, and food and nutritional supplements. We are also subject to rules related to marketing directed to certain groups, such as children.

Digital marketing services are a dynamic and growing sector of our business. Our service offerings in this area are covered by laws and regulations concerning user privacy, use of personal information, data protection and online tracking technologies. We are also subject to laws and regulations that govern whether and how we can transfer, process or receive certain data that we use in our operations, including data shared between countries or regions in which we operate. While we maintain policies and operational procedures to promote effective privacy protection and data management, existing and proposed laws and regulations in this area, such as the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) in the European Union, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”) that recently went into effect and other different forms of privacy legislation under consideration across the markets in which we operate, can impact the development, efficacy and profitability of internet-based and other digital marketing. Limitations on the scheduling, content or delivery of direct marketing activities can likewise impact the activities of our agencies offering those services.

6

With agencies and clients located in over 100 countries worldwide, we are also subject to laws governing our international operations. These include broad anti-corruption laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and the U.K. Bribery Act (2010), which generally prohibit the making or offering of improper payments to government officials and political figures. Export controls and economic sanctions regimes, such as those maintained by the U.S. government and comparable ones by the U.K., the member states of the European Union and the U.N., impose limitations on the Company’s ability to operate in certain geographic regions or to seek or service certain potential clients. Likewise, our Treasury operations must comply with exchange controls, restrictions on currency repatriation and the control requirements of applicable anti-money-laundering statutes.

Personnel

As of December 31, 2019, we employed approximately 54,300 people, of whom approximately 22,400 were employed in the United States. Because of the service character of the advertising and marketing communications business, the quality of personnel is of crucial importance to our continuing success. We conduct extensive employee training and development throughout our agencies and benchmark our compensation programs against those of our industry for their competitiveness and effectiveness in recruitment and retention. There is keen competition for qualified employees.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports are available, free of charge, on our website at www.interpublic.com under the "For Investors" section, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") at www.sec.gov. The public may also read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Interpublic Group Code of Conduct and the charters for each of the Audit Committee, Compensation and Leadership Talent Committee, and Corporate Governance Committee are available, free of charge, on our website at www.interpublic.com in the "Corporate Governance" subsection of the "About" section, or by writing to The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 909 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10022, Attention: Secretary. Information on our website is not part of this report.

7
Executive Officers of IPG

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1Also a Director

There is no family relationship among any of the executive officers.

Mr. Roth became our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer in January 2005. Prior to that time, Mr. Roth served as our Chairman of the Board from July 2004 to January 2005. Mr. Roth served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The MONY Group Inc. from February 1994 to June 2004. Mr. Roth has been a member of the Board of Directors of IPG since February 2002. He is also non-executive chairman of the board of Pitney Bowes Inc. and a director of Ryman Hospitality Properties.

Mr. Bonzani was hired as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in April 2012 and as of February 2019 was promoted to Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to joining IPG, Mr. Bonzani worked at IBM for 18 years, holding a number of positions in the legal department, most recently as Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Secretary from July 2008 to March 2012.

Mr. Carroll was named Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in April 2006. In 2017, Mr. Carroll assumed additional responsibilities as Chief Financial Officer for the Constituency Management Group (CMG). Mr. Carroll served as Senior Vice President and Controller of McCann Worldgroup from November 2005 to March 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Carroll served in various Chief Accounting Officer and Controller roles. Prior to that time, he served as a Financial Vice President at Lucent Technologies, Inc. and began his professional career at PricewaterhouseCoopers from October 1991 to September 2000. 

Ms. Connors was hired in February 2010 as Senior Vice President, Audit and Chief Risk Officer. Prior to joining us, she served as a partner at Deloitte & Touche, LLP from September 2003 to January 2010.

Ms. Johnson was hired as Assistant Treasurer, International in February 2000. In May 2004, Ms. Johnson was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of The Partnership, a division of Interpublic which included Lowe Worldwide and Draft. She was elected Senior Vice President and Treasurer in October 2004, in February 2013 was elected to Senior Vice President of Finance and Treasurer and as of January 1, 2020 was promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Mr. Krakowsky was hired in January 2002 as Senior Vice President, Director of Corporate Communications. He was elected to Executive Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Relations in December 2005, Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy and Talent Officer in February 2011 and in September 2019 was promoted to Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer. Prior to joining us, he served as Senior Vice President, Communications Director for Young & Rubicam from August 1996 to December 2000. 

8
Item 1A.Risk Factors