PART I

Item 1. Business.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Founded in 1901 as a retail shoe business in Seattle, Nordstrom later incorporated in Washington State in 1946 and went on to become one of the leading fashion retailers based in the U.S. We aspire to be the best fashion retailer in a digitally-connected world by remaining focused on our customers, serving them through our three strategic pillars: providing a compelling product offering, delivering outstanding services and experiences and leveraging the strength of the Nordstrom brand. We offer an extensive selection of high-quality brand-name and private label merchandise focused on apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories. No matter how customers choose to shop, we are committed to delivering the best possible service, product and experience, including alterations, order pickup, dining and styling, to make shopping fun, personalized and convenient.

We invested early in our omni-channel capabilities, integrating our operations, merchandising and technology across our stores and online, in both our Full-Price and Off-Price businesses. We have more than 60 combinations in which merchandise can be ordered, fulfilled and delivered. Though this has enabled us to serve customers in multiple ways, we are focused on providing a seamless experience for our customer across stores and online. We view our business as one reportable “Retail” segment, which aligns with how management operates, evaluates and views the results of our operations. For more information about our business and our reportable segments, see Item 7: MD&A and Note 16: Segment Reporting in Item 8.

As of March 20, 2020, our reportable segment, Retail, includes:

Full-Price

•110 Nordstrom-branded FLS in the U.S.

•six FLS and six Rack stores in Canada

•Full-Price Nordstrom.com website and mobile application

•TrunkClub.com website and six Trunk Club clubhouses

•three Jeffrey boutiques

•five Nordstrom Locals

Our Full-Price operating segment is a combination of physical and digital retail assets. This combination of retail platforms and services allows us to provide our customers with a unique and seamless shopping experience, engaging them on their terms. We continue to evolve our Full-Price business, blurring the lines between the digital and in-store experience. This primarily includes traditional in-store and online shopping, ship-to or pickup from a store of choice, and try on at home and pay only for what is kept, among various other personalized services including convenient access to alterations. 

As our Full-Price business evolves, our market strategy leverages our inventory to serve customers on their terms through investments in digital capabilities and in people, product and place. Our goal is to gain market share while driving customer engagement and inventory efficiencies. There are two elements to this strategy: first, we provide customers a greater selection of merchandise available for next-day pickup or delivery, without increasing inventory levels. Second, we are increasing engagement with customers by offering express services such as order pickup, returns and alterations at additional convenient locations. We accelerated our strategy to five of our top markets — New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Dallas and San Francisco — in 2019 and will expand our strategy into five additional markets in 2020, including Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., Boston, Seattle and Toronto. In addition, we are integrating Trunk Club into Nordstrom full-line stores and Nordstrom.com to create a cohesive styling offering across Nordstrom and to gain efficiencies.

Off-Price

•242 Off-Price Nordstrom Rack stores in the U.S.

•Off-Price NRHL website and mobile application

•two Last Chance clearance stores

In Off-Price, Nordstrom Rack and Nordstromrack.com purchase merchandise primarily from the same vendors carried in our Full-Price channel and also serve as outlets for clearance merchandise from the Full-Price channel. NRHL offers both a persistent selection of Off-Price merchandise, as well as limited-time flash sale events on fashion and lifestyle brands. Nordstromrack.com combines the technology expertise of HauteLook with the merchant expertise of Nordstrom Rack. 

FISCAL YEAR

We operate on a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to January 31st. References to 2019 and all years except 2017 within this document are based on a 52-week fiscal year, while 2017 is based on a 53-week fiscal year.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  7
RETURN POLICY

We have a fair and reasonable approach to returns, handling them on a case-by-case basis with the ultimate objective of making our customers happy. We have no formal policy on how long we accept returns at Nordstrom FLS or Nordstrom.com. Our goal is to take care of our customers, which includes making returns and exchanges easy, whether in stores or online, where we offer free shipping on purchases and returns. Trunk Club accepts returns within five days of delivery, which are free for the customer if the items are returned in the box provided by Trunk Club with the original price tag and packaging. Trunks can also be returned at any Nordstrom FLS. Our Nordstrom Rack stores and NRHL generally accept returns of apparel, footwear, accessories and home products up to 45 days from the date of purchase or date of shipment with the original price tag and sales receipt. Off-Price merchandise can be returned by mail or at any Nordstrom Rack store location.

SEASONALITY

Our business, like that of other retailers, is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our sales are typically higher during our Anniversary Sale in July and the holidays in the fourth quarter. Beginning in 2018, our Anniversary Sale occurred in our second fiscal quarter. In 2017, our Anniversary Sale occurred in the second and third fiscal quarters. Results for any one quarter are not indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. 

WORKING CAPITAL

Our working capital requirements are funded primarily through cash flows generated from operations. In addition, we have access to the commercial paper market and can draw on our revolving credit facilities for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. Consistent with our seasonal fluctuations, our working capital requirements have historically increased during the months leading up to the Anniversary sale and the holidays as we purchase inventory in anticipation of increased sales. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7: MD&A for more detailed information.

LOYALTY PROGRAM

We evolved our customer loyalty program with the launch of The Nordy Club in October 2018, which incorporates a traditional point system and the favorite benefits of our previous program, while providing customers exclusive access to products and events, enhanced services, personalized experiences and more convenient ways to shop. Customers accumulate points based on their level of spending and type of participation. Upon reaching certain point thresholds, customers receive Nordstrom Notes, which can be redeemed for goods or services offered at Nordstrom FLS, Nordstrom.com, Nordstrom Rack and NRHL. Nordstrom cardmembers can also earn rewards at Trunk Club. The Nordy Club member benefits will vary based on the level of customer spend, and include Bonus Points days and shopping and fashion events.

We offer customers access to a variety of payment products and services, including a selection of Nordstrom-branded Visa® credit cards in the U.S. and Canada, as well as a Nordstrom-branded private label credit card for Nordstrom purchases. When customers use a Nordstrom-branded credit or debit card, they also participate in The Nordy Club and receive additional benefits, which can vary depending on the level of spend, including early access to the Anniversary Sale, Nordstrom to You (an in-home stylist) and incremental accumulation of points toward Nordstrom Notes.

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

We operate in a highly competitive business environment. We compete with other international, national, regional and local retailers, including internet-based businesses, omni-channel department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores and boutiques, which may carry similar lines of merchandise. Our specific competitors vary from market to market. We believe the keys to competing in our industry are what will always matter most to our customers: providing compelling product and outstanding service, both digitally and in stores, backed by people who care. This includes serving customers on their terms by providing a seamless digital and physical experience, offering compelling, curated and quality products across a range of price points, and strategically partnering with relevant and limited distribution brands, all in top markets.

8
SUPPLY CHAIN NETWORK

Our “Supply Chain Network” consists of: 

•fulfillment centers that primarily process and ship orders to our customers

•distribution centers that primarily process and ship merchandise to our stores and other facilities

•omni-channel centers that both fulfill customer orders and ship merchandise to our stores. 

We expanded our Supply Chain Network facilities and enhanced our inventory management systems to support our omni-channel capabilities and provide greater access to merchandise selection and faster delivery. We select locations and customize inventory allocations to enable merchandise to flow more efficiently and quickly to our customers. Full-Price online purchases are primarily shipped to our customers from our fulfillment centers but may also be shipped from our Nordstrom FLS, distribution centers or omni-channel centers. Full-Price in-store purchases are primarily fulfilled from that store’s inventory, but when inventory is unavailable at that store, it may also be shipped to our customers from our fulfillment centers, distribution centers, omni-channel centers, or from other Nordstrom FLS. Off-Price online purchases are shipped to our customers from our fulfillment centers and distribution centers. Both businesses selectively use vendor dropship to supplement their online offerings, which are then shipped directly from the vendor to the end customer.

Our first large-scale omni-channel center in Riverside, California will initially support our Full-Price customers in the West Coast region and is expected to open in Spring 2020. Off-Price inventory and fulfillment will be added to this facility in the future. Our smaller Local Omni-channel Hub in Torrance, California was opened in 2019 and supports the greater Los Angeles market as part of our market strategy and will have highly curated inventory that serves the specialized needs of that market.

INVENTORY

We plan our merchandise purchases and receipts to coincide with expected sales trends. For instance, our merchandise purchases and receipts increase prior to our Anniversary Sale, which has historically extended over the last two weeks of July. We purchase and receive a larger amount of merchandise in the fall as we prepare for the holiday shopping season (from late November through December). At Nordstrom Rack, we invest in pack and hold inventory, which involves the strategic purchase of merchandise from some of our top Full-Price brands in advance of the upcoming selling seasons, to take advantage of favorable buying opportunities. This inventory is typically held for six months on average. 

In order to offer merchandise that our customers want, we purchase from a wide variety of high-quality domestic and foreign suppliers. We also have arrangements with agents and contract manufacturers to produce our private label merchandise. 

EMPLOYEES

During 2019, we employed approximately 68,000 employees on a full- or part-time basis. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, employment increased to approximately 75,000 in December 2019 due to the holidays. All of our employees are non-union. We believe our relationship with our employees is good.

TRADEMARKS

Our most notable trademarks include Nordstrom, Nordstrom Rack, HauteLook, Trunk Club, Halogen, BP., Zella, Caslon, 1901, Treasure & Bond and Tucker+Tate. Each of our trademarks is renewable indefinitely, provided it is still used in commerce at the time of the renewal.

SEC FILINGS

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC. The SEC maintains a website at SEC.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file with the SEC.

WEBSITE ACCESS

Our website address is Nordstrom.com. Our annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, our executives’ statements of changes in beneficial ownership of securities on Form 4 and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available for free on or through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the report with or furnish it to the SEC. Interested parties may also access a webcast of quarterly earnings conference calls and other financial events through our website.

CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY

We continue to evolve our approach to corporate social responsibility to deliver on our core intention to leave it better than we found it. 

We are reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by making regular investments in energy efficiency, renewable energy and fuel efficiency. We are making choices that help us conserve resources like water, paper and food. Recyclable paper and corrugated cardboard, our two largest waste streams, have continued to be recycled domestically. As a sign of our continued commitment, we are proud to have joined the G7 Fashion Pact, a new coalition of 56 fashion companies that is working to identify and promote goals that will reduce our impact on the climate, biodiversity and the oceans.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  9
We are also including more sustainable products in our merchandise assortment and helping customers make responsible choices with items they are no longer using. We keep clothing out of landfills by extending their useful life, through our clothing donation program, and with the launch of our new Sustainable Style section on Nordstrom.com, customers can easily shop for products that use more sustainable raw materials and that are made in factories with higher social and environmental standards. 

Through our charitable giving efforts, we support hundreds of nonprofit organizations and donate millions of dollars to organizations and programs that empower youth, support children and care for families. Our Nordstrom Made brand Treasure & Bond donates 2.5% of net sales to nonprofits that empower youth. In 2019, we made our largest-ever annual donation of more than $1 million, bringing our total Treasure & Bond donation to more than $5 million since the brand launched in 2014. 

We are working to protect human rights for individuals across our value chain, from our employees to the people who manufacture the products we sell. In March of 2020, we announced a new goal to have 90% of our Nordstrom Made products be produced in factories that support women's empowerment by 2025. We formalized our Corporate Human Rights Commitment and have robust Partnership Guidelines to ensure we work with vendor partners who share our commitment to producing quality products through the use of ethical business practices. We are also committed to creating an inclusive environment where all employees can be themselves, contribute their ideas and do their best work. We are proud to have achieved 100% pay equity for employees of all genders and races, and we are close to achieving pay parity — median pay for women across the company being equal to the median pay for men. 

For more information on our corporate responsibility strategy and efforts, please refer to the Sharing Our Progress report available at nordstromcares.com.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

We have a long-standing commitment to upholding a high level of ethical standards. In addition, we have adopted Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics for our employees, officers and directors and Corporate Governance Guidelines, which comply with the listing standards of the NYSE and SEC requirements. Our Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters for the following Board of Director Committees are available through our website: 

•Audit and Finance

•Compensation, People and Culture

•Corporate Governance and Nominating 

•Technology 

Any amendments to these documents, or waivers of the requirements they contain, will also be available on our website.

For printed versions of these items or any other inquiries, please contact:

Nordstrom Investor Relations

1700 Seventh Avenue, Suite 1500

Seattle, Washington 98101

(206) 303-3200

invrelations@nordstrom.com

10
Item 1A. Risk Factors.