Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

(Dollar and share amounts in millions except percentages and per share amounts, except where noted otherwise)

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements and should be read in conjunction with Item 1A: Risk Factors, Item 6: Selected Financial Data, our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this 2019 Annual Report, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell shares of our common stock.

OVERVIEW 

We strive to serve customers seamlessly across multiple touchpoints, which includes our two brands — Nordstrom and Nordstrom Rack — both in stores and online. We have a high-quality store portfolio with 95% of our 116 FLS located in “A” malls and most of our 248 Nordstrom Racks in off-mall centers. Our established and growing digital business now makes up one-third of sales. Roughly 30% of our customers are shopping across more than one of these touchpoints. And as a result of this engagement, we know these customers spend four to 11 times more on average.

In 2019, net earnings were $496, or $3.18 per diluted share, which included $0.19 of charges primarily related to the integration of Trunk Club as part of our market strategy and debt refinancing costs. Our net sales decrease of 2.2% started with the first half of the year below expectations, while we improved sales trends in the second half across our Full-Price and Off-Price businesses. We made tremendous progress executing our market strategy, accelerating our sales trends, and maintaining our inventory and expense discipline, including the following:

•Customer Satisfaction — Meaningfully improved customer satisfaction scores in many areas of our business and during our two key events — Anniversary Sale and Holiday. 

•Market Strategy — Accelerated the rollout of our market strategy to five of our top markets and significantly expanded our presence in the New York market with our NYC flagship opening.

•Top-Line Trends — Successfully executed plans to drive our top-line as evidenced by a 400 basis-point improvement in the second half of the year relative to the first half.

•Operating Discipline — Realized $225 in savings, exceeding our plans by 10%, maintained a positive sales and inventory spread for four straight quarters and generated annual operating cash flow of more than one billion dollars for the 11th consecutive year.

Our market strategy and the strength of our digital and physical assets allows us to better serve customers while increasing efficiencies. In 2020, we’re focused on scaling in 10 of our top markets, which represent more than half of our sales. As we continue into 2020, we remain focused on connecting with customers and serving them on their terms to position ourselves for long-term success.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  23
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

In our ongoing effort to enhance the customer experience, we are focused on providing customers with a seamless experience across our businesses. We invested early in our omni-channel capabilities, integrating our operations, merchandising and technology across our stores and online, in both our Full-Price and Off-Price businesses. While our customers may engage with us through multiple businesses, we know they value the overall Nordstrom brand experience and view us simply as Nordstrom, which is ultimately how we view our company. We have one Retail reportable segment and analyze our results on a total company basis.

We measure our performance through customer, market share, operational and net sales metrics. As this is how we measure our performance, and as the change in comparable sales approximates the change in net sales in 2019, we only report changes in net sales.

In 2019, we adopted the SEC’s rule of FAST Act Modernization and Simplification of Regulation S-K. In accordance with this new standard, we limit our presentation and discussion below to the two most recent fiscal years. For our comparison and discussion of 2018 and 2017, see Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of our 2018 Annual Report, which we filed with the SEC on March 18, 2019.

Net Sales

The following table summarizes net sales by business: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Prior year Full-Price net sales included a decrease of approximately 300 basis points in 2018 due primarily to loyalty related adjustments and the 53rd week in 2017. 

2 Prior year Off-Price net sales included a decrease of approximately 250 basis points in 2018 due primarily to the 53rd week and loyalty related adjustments in 2017.

3 Prior year net sales included a decrease of approximately 150 basis points in 2018 due to the 53rd week in 2017.

In 2019, total Company net sales decreased 2.2%, compared with 2018. While net sales decreased, we successfully executed plans to drive our top-line in the second half of the year due to our loyalty, digital marketing and merchandising programs. Digital sales increased 7% compared with 2018 and order pickup as a percentage of digital sales increased compared with 2018.

During the year, we expanded Nordstrom NYC with the opening of our flagship store, which is a cornerstone of our market strategy. In addition, we opened one FLS, five Nordstrom Rack stores and two Nordstrom Locals. We closed six Nordstrom FLS and one Nordstrom Rack store. 

Full-Price net sales decreased 3.5%, compared with 2018. Full-Price sales reflected a decrease in the number of items sold, partially offset by an increase in the average selling price per item sold. Shoes was the top-performing merchandise category.

Off-Price net sales increased 0.2%, compared with 2018. Off-Price sales reflected an increase in the average selling price per item sold, partially offset by a decrease in the number of items sold. Men’s was the top-performing merchandise category.

Credit Card Revenues, Net

Credit card revenues, net include our portion of the ongoing credit card revenue, net of credit losses, pursuant to our program agreement with TD. TD is the exclusive issuer of our consumer credit cards and we perform the account servicing functions. Credit card revenues, net were $392 in 2019, compared with $380 in 2018, increasing $12 primarily as a result of our strategic partnership with TD to responsibly grow our receivables and associated revenues as well as efforts to drive new account growth.

24
Gross Profit

The following table summarizes gross profit:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our gross profit decreased $125 primarily from lower sales volume, while the rate remained flat compared with 2018. This reflected increased merchandise margins, offset by higher costs from growth in our loyalty program and planned occupancy costs related to the NYC flagship store. 

Ending inventory as of February 1, 2020 decreased 2.9% compared with prior year, marking four consecutive quarters of sales growing faster than inventory. Our continued focus on inventory execution led to improvements in inventory turnover rate in 2019, particularly in Off-Price. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

SG&A is summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our SG&A rate increased 32 basis points and decreased $60 in 2019 compared with 2018. We recorded charges of $32 in 2019 primarily related to the integration of Trunk Club to create a cohesive styling offering across Full-Price and to gain efficiencies. Excluding the integration charges in 2019 and the Estimated Non-recurring Charge in 2018 of $72, SG&A rate increased by approximately 60 basis points, driven primarily by deleverage of fixed costs from lower sales volume. SG&A decreased $20 compared with 2018 due to our progress in reducing our fixed expense structure, partially offset by higher costs to drive sales, including fulfillment and marketing.

Earnings Before Interest and Income Taxes 

EBIT is summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

EBIT decreased $53 in 2019 compared with 2018, primarily due to lower sales volume. Excluding the integration charges of $32 in 2019 and the Estimated Non-recurring Charge of $72 in 2018, EBIT margin deleveraged by approximately 50 basis points from lower sales volume.

Interest Expense, Net

Interest expense, net is summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense, net decreased $2 in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to higher capitalized interest in 2019 associated with our NYC flagship store and Supply Chain Networks, partially offset by $8 of debt refinancing costs.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  25
Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense is summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table illustrates the components of our effective tax rate:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in the effective tax rate for 2019 compared with 2018 was primarily due to lower tax benefits from stock compensation and one-time tax benefits recognized in 2018 associated with the release of a foreign valuation allowance (see Note 14: Income Taxes in Item 8).

Earnings Per Share

EPS is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Diluted EPS decreased $0.14 in 2019 compared with 2018. Excluding $0.19 of charges related to the integration of Trunk Club and debt refinancing costs in 2019 and the Estimated Non-recurring Charge of $0.28 in 2018, diluted EPS decreased $0.23 primarily due to lower sales volume.

2020 Outlook

We remain committed to increasing total shareholder returns through three financial objectives: gaining market share; increasing profitability and return on invested capital; and maintaining disciplined capital allocation. Our initial 2020 financial expectations released on March 3, 2020, did not include the impact of COVID-19, including the temporary closures of our stores (see Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8). Due to heightened uncertainty relating to the impacts of COVID-19 on our business operations, including the duration and impact on overall customer demand, we withdrew our 2020 guidance. We are making further reductions to our expense and capital expenditure plans and are currently suspending share repurchases.

26
Adjusted ROIC (Non-GAAP financial measure)

We believe that Adjusted ROIC is a useful financial measure for investors and credit agencies in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of the capital we have invested in our business to generate returns over time. In addition, we have incorporated it in our executive incentive measures and we believe it is an important indicator of shareholders’ return over the long term.

For 2019, income statement activity for adjusted net operating profit and balance sheet amounts for average invested capital are measured under the Lease Standard, and the remaining years disclosed are under the previous lease standard. Under the previous lease standard, we estimated the value of our operating leases as if they met the criteria for capital leases or we had purchased the properties. This provided additional supplemental information that estimated the investment in our operating leases. Estimated depreciation on capitalized operating leases and average estimated asset base of capitalized operating leases are not calculated in accordance with, nor an alternative for, GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our results as reported under GAAP.

Adjusted ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, return on assets, net earnings, total assets or other GAAP financial measures. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to Adjusted ROIC is return on assets. The following is a reconciliation of return on assets to Adjusted ROIC:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 As a result of the adoption of the Lease Standard, we add back the operating lease interest to reflect how we manage our business. Operating lease interest is a component of operating lease cost recorded in occupancy costs and is calculated in accordance with the Lease Standard.  

2 Capitalized operating leases is our best estimate of the asset base we would record for our leases that are classified as operating under the previous lease standard if they had met the criteria for a finance lease or we had purchased the property. The asset base for each quarter is calculated as the trailing four quarters of rent expense multiplied by eight, a commonly used method to estimate the asset base we would record for our capitalized operating leases. 

3 For leases with property incentives that exceed the ROU assets, we reclassify the amount from assets to other current liabilities and other liabilities. As a result of the adoption of the Lease Standard, we reduce average total assets, as this better reflects how we manage our business.  

4 Results for 2018 included lower income tax expense primarily associated with the Tax Act and a $72 unfavorable impact related to the Estimated Non-recurring Charge, which negatively impacted return on assets by approximately 60 basis points and Adjusted ROIC by approximately 80 basis points (see Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8). Results for 2017 included a $42 unfavorable impact related to the Tax Act. Results for 2016 included a $197 unfavorable impact related to the Trunk Club non-cash goodwill impairment charge.

5 For 2019, the adoption of the Lease Standard negatively impacted return on assets by approximately 120 basis points and Adjusted ROIC by approximately 40 basis points. Integration charges of $32 in 2019, were primarily non-cash related and negatively impacted return on assets by approximately 30 basis points and Adjusted ROIC by approximately 40 basis points.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  27
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We strive to maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to allow us to cover our seasonal cash needs and to maintain appropriate levels of short-term borrowings. We believe that our operating cash flows, available credit facility and potential future borrowings are sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the next 12 months and beyond.

Over the long term, we manage our cash and capital structure to maximize shareholder return, maintain our financial position, manage refinancing risk and allow flexibility for strategic initiatives. We regularly assess our debt and leverage levels, capital expenditure requirements, debt service payments, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and other future investments. We believe that as of February 1, 2020, our existing cash and cash equivalents on-hand of $853, available credit facility of $800 and potential future operating cash flows and borrowings will be sufficient to fund these scheduled future payments and potential long-term initiatives. For more information, see subsequent events in Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8.

The following is a summary of our cash flows by activity:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

The majority of our operating cash inflows are derived from sales. We also receive cash payments for property incentives from developers. Our operating cash outflows generally consist of payments to our merchandise vendors (net of vendor allowances) and shipping carriers, payments to our employees for wages, salaries and other employee benefits and payments to our landlords for rent. Operating cash outflows also include payments for income taxes and interest payments on our short-term and long-term borrowings. 

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $60 between 2019 and 2018 primarily due to payments made related to the Estimated Non-recurring Charge and a decrease in sales.

Investing Activities

Our investing cash outflows include payments for capital expenditures, including stores, supply chain improvements and technology costs. Our investing cash inflows are generally from proceeds from sales of property and equipment. 

Net cash used in investing activities increased by $256 between 2019 and 2018 due to increases in capital expenditures, primarily related to our Supply Chain Network, including our omni-channel center, and Nordstrom NYC.

The opening of our first large-scale omni-channel center in Riverside, California, which will initially support our Full-Price customers in the West Coast region and Off-Price customers in the future, is expected to open in the spring of 2020. We also opened a smaller Local Omni-channel Hub in Torrance, California in 2019, which supports the greater Los Angeles market as part of our market strategy.

Capital Expenditures

Our capital expenditures, net are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Deferred property incentives are included in our cash provided by operations in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8. We operationally view the property incentives we receive from our developers and vendors as an offset to our capital expenditures.

28
Financing Activities

The majority of our financing activities include repurchases of common stock, long-term debt proceeds and/or payments and dividend payments.

Net cash used in financing activities decreased $436 between 2019 and 2018 primarily due to decreased share repurchase activity.

Share Repurchases

In August 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a new program to repurchase up to $1,500 of our outstanding common stock, with no expiration date. In 2019, we repurchased 4.1 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $186, compared with 14.3 shares for an aggregate purchase price of $702 during 2018. We had $707 remaining in share repurchase capacity as of February 1, 2020. The actual timing, price, manner and amounts of future share repurchases, if any, will be subject to market and economic conditions and applicable SEC rules. 

Borrowing Activity 

During 2019, we issued $500 aggregate principal amount of 4.375% senior unsecured notes due April 2030. We recorded debt issuance costs incurred as a result of the issuance in other financing activities, net in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. With the proceeds of these new notes, we retired our $500 senior unsecured notes that were due May 2020 (see Note 9: Debt and Credit Facilities in Item 8).

Additionally, in 2018, we fully repaid $47 outstanding on our wholly owned subsidiary Puerto Rico’s unsecured borrowing facility (see Note 9: Debt and Credit Facilities in Item 8).

Dividends

In 2019, we paid dividends of $229, or $1.48 per share, compared with $250, or $1.48 per share, in 2018. In determining the dividends to pay, we analyze our dividend payout ratio and dividend yield, while taking into consideration our current and projected operating performance and liquidity. Our dividend payout ratio target range is 30% to 40% of the prior year’s net earnings.

In February 2020, subsequent to year end, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.37 per share, which will be paid on March 25, 2020 to shareholders of record as of March 10, 2020.

Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP financial measure)

Free Cash Flow is one of our key liquidity measures, and when used in conjunction with GAAP measures, we believe it provides investors with a meaningful analysis of our ability to generate cash from our business.

Free Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, operating cash flows or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to Free Cash Flow is net cash provided by operating activities. The following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to Free Cash Flow:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  29
Adjusted EBITDA (Non-GAAP financial measure)

Adjusted EBITDA is one of our key financial metrics to reflect our view of cash flow from net earnings. Adjusted EBITDA excludes significant items which are non-operating in nature in order to evaluate our core operating performance against prior periods. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to Adjusted EBITDA is net earnings.

Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for net earnings, overall change in cash or liquidity of the business as a whole. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The following is a reconciliation of net earnings to Adjusted EBITDA:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Capacity and Commitments

As of February 1, 2020, we had total short-term borrowing capacity of $800 under the Revolver that expires September 2023. Provided that we obtain written consent from our lenders and that we are in compliance with the Revolver at the time, we have the option to increase the Revolver by up to $200, to a total of $1,000, and two options to extend the Revolver by one year. As of February 1, 2020, we had no borrowings outstanding under our Revolver. For more information, see subsequent events in Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 9: Debt and Credit Facilities in Item 8. In October 2021, our $500 4.00% senior unsecured notes will come due. 

We maintain trade and standby letters of credit to facilitate our international payments. As of February 1, 2020, we have $8 available and none outstanding under the trade letter of credit and $15 available and $2 outstanding under the standby letter of credit.

Impact of Credit Ratings

Changes in our credit ratings may impact our costs to borrow and may require we hold collateral.

For our Revolver, the interest rate applicable to any borrowings we may enter into depends upon the type of borrowing incurred plus an applicable margin, which is determined based on our credit ratings. At the time of this report, our credit ratings and outlook were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Should the ratings assigned to our long-term debt improve, the applicable margin associated with any borrowings under the Revolver may decrease, resulting in a lower borrowing cost under this facility. Conversely, should the ratings assigned to our long-term debt worsen, the applicable margin associated with any borrowings under the Revolver may increase, resulting in a higher borrowing cost under this facility.

Debt Covenants

The Revolver requires that we maintain an adjusted debt to EBITDAR leverage ratio of no more than four times. The Revolver’s ratio calculation methodology has not been impacted by the adoption of the Lease Standard. As of February 1, 2020, we were in compliance with this covenant.

30
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR (Non-GAAP financial measure)

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics and we believe using this measure is useful for analyzing our debt levels, as it provides a reflection of our credit worthiness that could impact our credit rating and borrowing costs. Our goal is to manage debt levels to maintain an investment-grade credit rating and operate with an efficient capital structure. 

For 2019, income statement activity and balance sheet amounts are measured under the Lease Standard, while 2018 activity and amounts were measured under the previous lease standard. Under the previous lease standard, we estimated the value of our operating leases as if they met the criteria for capital leases or we had purchased the properties. This provided additional supplemental information that estimated the investment in our operating leases. Estimated capitalized operating lease liability is not calculated in accordance with, nor an alternative for, GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitution for our results as reported under GAAP.

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, debt to net earnings, net earnings, debt or other GAAP financial measures. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. 

The following is a reconciliation of debt to net earnings to Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 The components of Adjusted Debt are as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, while the components of Adjusted EBITDAR are for 2019 and 2018.

2 Based upon the estimated lease liability as of the end of the period, calculated as the trailing four quarters of rent expense multiplied by eight, a commonly used method of estimating the debt we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease or we had purchased the property.  

3 As a result of the adoption of the Lease Standard, we add back lease costs, net to calculate Adjusted EBITDAR. Lease costs, net excludes variable common area maintenance charges and variable real estate taxes for comparability with how we presented rent expense, net in the prior year. This is how management views the measure internally.  

4 For 2019, integration charges of $32 were primarily non-cash related, and negatively impacted Debt to Net Earnings by approximately 0.3 and Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR by approximately 0.1. The adoption of the Lease Standard in 2019 did not have a significant impact on Debt to Net Earnings or Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR. Results for 2018 included the $72 impact related to the Estimated Non-recurring Charge, which negatively impacted Debt to Net Earnings by approximately 0.4 and Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR by approximately 0.1 (see Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8).

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  31
Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and the expected effect on our liquidity and cash flows as of February 1, 2020. We expect to fund these commitments primarily with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business and credit available to us under existing and potential future facilities.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Included in the required debt repayments disclosed above are estimated total interest payments of $1,838 as of February 1, 2020, payable over the remaining life of the debt.

The operating lease obligations in the table above do not include payments for variable lease costs that are required by most of our lease agreements. These costs include variable payments related to real estate taxes, common area maintenance costs and additional rent payments based upon a percentage of our sales, which totaled $105 in 2019.

Purchase obligations primarily consist of inventory purchase orders and capital expenditure commitments.

Other long-term liabilities consist of workers’ compensation and other liability insurance reserves and postretirement benefits. The payment amounts presented above were estimated based on historical payment trends. Other long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments, such as property incentives that exceed the associated ROU asset, were excluded from the table above. Also excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits of $25, as we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash payments, if any, for these liabilities.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In management’s opinion, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have a material current or future effect on our financial condition or financial statements.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The following discussion highlights the estimates we believe are critical and should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit & Finance Committee of our Board of Directors, and the Audit & Finance Committee has reviewed our disclosures that follow.

Leases

During the first quarter of 2019, we adopted the Lease Standard using the transition method provided in ASU 2018-11 (see Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8). As a result, reporting periods beginning in the first quarter of 2019 are presented under the Lease Standard while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under ASC 840 — Leases. 

Upon adoption of the Lease Standard, we record leases, which consist primarily of operating leases, on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as operating lease ROU assets, current portion of operating lease liabilities and non-current operating lease liabilities. Operating lease liabilities are initially recognized based on the net present value of the fixed portion of our lease and common area maintenance payments from lease commencement through the lease term. To calculate the net present value, we apply an incremental borrowing rate. The incremental borrowing rate is determined using a portfolio approach based on the rate of interest we would pay to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments on a collateralized basis over a similar term. We use quoted interest rates obtained from financial institutions as an input to derive our incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate for the lease. We recognize ROU assets based on operating lease liabilities reduced by property incentives. We test ROU assets for impairment in the same manner as long-lived assets, and exclude the related operating lease liability and operating lease payments in our analysis. 

32
Revenue Recognition

During the first quarter of 2018, we adopted the Revenue Standard using the modified retrospective adoption method (see Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8). Results beginning in the first quarter of 2018 are presented under the Revenue Standard, while prior period amounts are not adjusted. 

We recognize sales revenue net of estimated returns and excluding sales taxes. Revenue from sales to customers shipped from our Supply Chain Network facilities, stores and directly from our vendors (“shipped revenues”), which includes shipping revenue when applicable, is recognized at shipping point, the point in time where control has transferred to the customer. Costs to ship orders to customers are expensed as a fulfillment activity at shipping point, commissions from sales at our Full-Price stores are expensed at the point of sale and both are recorded in SG&A expenses. Prior to 2018, shipped revenues were recognized upon estimated receipt by the customer and we recorded an estimated in-transit allowance for orders shipped prior to a period’s end, but not yet received by the customer.

We reduce sales and cost of sales by an estimate of customer merchandise returns, which is calculated based on historical return patterns, and record a sales return allowance and an estimated returns asset. Our sales return allowance is classified in other current liabilities and our estimated returns asset, calculated based on the cost of merchandise sold, is classified in prepaid expenses and other on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Due to the seasonality of our business, these balances typically increase when higher sales occur in the last month of a period, such as the Anniversary Sale, which usually occurs at the end of the second quarter, and decrease in the following period. Prior to 2018, the estimated cost of merchandise returned was netted with our sales return allowance in other current liabilities. 

Although we believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates of sales returns, actual returns could differ from recorded amounts. In the past three years, there were no significant changes in customer return behavior and we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of our sales return allowance. A 10% change in the sales return allowance net of the estimated returns asset would have had a $12 impact on our net earnings for the year ended February 1, 2020.

As our customers earn points and Nordstrom Notes in The Nordy Club, a portion of underlying sales revenue is deferred based on an estimated stand-alone selling price of points, Nordstrom Notes and other loyalty benefits, such as alterations. We recognize the revenue and related cost of sale when the Nordstrom Notes are ultimately redeemed and reduce our contract liability. We include the deferred revenue in other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. We record breakage revenue of unused points and unredeemed Nordstrom Notes based on expected customer redemption. We estimate, based on historical usage, that approximately 8% of Nordstrom Notes and approximately 16% of points will be unredeemed. Other benefits of the loyalty program, including shopping and fashion events, are recorded in SG&A expenses as these are not a material right of the program.

Merchandise Inventories

Merchandise inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or market value using the retail inventory method. Under the retail method, the valuation of inventories is determined by applying a calculated cost-to-retail ratio to the retail value of ending inventory. The value of our inventory on the balance sheet is then reduced by a charge to cost of sales for retail inventory markdowns taken on the selling price. To determine if the retail value of our inventory should be marked down, we consider current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. Inherent in the retail inventory method are certain management judgments that may affect the ending inventory valuation as well as gross profit.

We take physical inventory counts and adjust our records accordingly. Following each physical inventory cycle, we adjust shrinkage to actual results and an estimate is recorded for shrinkage from the count date to year end. We evaluate and determine our estimated shrinkage rate, which is based on a percentage of sales, using the most recent physical inventory and historical results. 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

When facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying values of certain long-lived assets, including buildings, equipment, amortizable intangible and ROU assets, may be impaired, we perform an evaluation of recoverability by comparing the carrying values of the net assets to their related projected undiscounted future cash flows, in addition to other quantitative and qualitative analyses. 

Land, property and equipment are grouped at the lowest level at which there are identifiable cash flows when assessing impairment, while cash flows for our retail store assets are identified at the individual store level.

Our estimates are subject to uncertainties and may be impacted by various external factors such as economic conditions and market competition. While we believe the inputs and assumptions utilized in our analyses of future cash flows are reasonable, events or circumstances may change, which could cause us to revise these estimates.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  33
Income Taxes

We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Using this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded based on differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities and for operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. We routinely evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit of our deferred tax assets and may record a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is determined that some portion of the tax benefit will not be realized.

We regularly evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit for income tax positions we have taken in various federal, state and foreign filings by considering all relevant facts, circumstances and information available. If we believe it is more likely than not that our position will be sustained, we recognize a benefit at the largest amount that we believe is cumulatively greater than 50% likely to be realized. Our unrecognized tax benefit was $22 as of February 1, 2020, and $30 as of February 2, 2019. Interest and penalties related to income tax matters are classified as a component of income tax expense.

Income taxes require significant management judgment regarding applicable statutes and their related interpretation, the status of various income tax audits and our particular facts and circumstances. Also, as audits are completed or statutes of limitations lapse, it may be necessary to record adjustments to our taxes payable, deferred taxes, tax reserves or income tax expense. Such adjustments did not materially impact our effective income tax rate in 2019 or 2018.

In December 2017, the Tax Act was signed into law. In accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we made a reasonable estimate of the Tax Act’s impact and provisionally recorded this estimate in our 2017 results. As of February 2, 2019, we completed our accounting for the impacts of the Tax Act, resulting in no material changes to previously recorded provisional amounts (see Note 14: Income Taxes in Item 8).

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

See Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8 for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements and the impact these standards are anticipated to have on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.