Item 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. See Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Note that amounts within this Item shown in millions may not foot due to rounding.

Mattel has omitted discussion of 2017 results where it would be redundant to the discussion previously included in Part II, Item 7 "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," of Mattel’s Amended Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2018.

The following discussion also includes gross sales and currency exchange rate impact, non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Regulation G"), to supplement the financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. The currency exchange rate impact reflects the portion (expressed as a percentage) of changes in Mattel's reported results that are attributable to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Mattel uses these non-GAAP financial measures to analyze its continuing operations and to monitor, assess, and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. These measures are not, and should not be viewed as, a substitute for GAAP financial measures. Refer to "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion, including a reconciliation of gross sales, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net sales, its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.

Overview

Mattel is a leading global children's entertainment company that specializes in the design and production of quality toys and consumer products. Mattel's products are among the most widely recognized toy products in the world. Mattel's mission is to "create innovative products and experiences that inspire, entertain, and develop children through play." In order to deliver on this mission, Mattel is focused on the following two-part strategy to transform Mattel from a toy manufacturing company into an intellectual property ("IP") driven, high-performing toy company:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•In the mid- to long-term, capture the full value of Mattel's IP through franchise management and the development of Mattel's online retail and e-commerce capabilities. 

Reorganization of Gross Sales by Categories and Brand in 2019

Although there were no changes to Mattel's commercial operations that impacted its operating segments, in the first quarter of 2019, Mattel modified its reporting structure for revenues, as outlined below, and reorganized its regional sales reporting structure within the International segment. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Gross sales by categories are presented as follows:

Dolls—including brands such as Barbie, American Girl, Enchantimals, and Polly Pocket. 

Infant, Toddler, and Preschool—including brands such as Fisher-Price and Thomas & Friends, Power Wheels, Fireman Sam, and Shimmer and Shine (Nickelodeon). 

Vehicles—including brands such as Hot Wheels, Matchbox, and CARS (Disney Pixar). 

Action Figures, Building Sets, and Games—including brands such as MEGA, UNO, Toy Story (Disney Pixar), Jurassic World (NBCUniversal), and WWE. 

28

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated gross sales by categories, along with supplemental information by brand for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, based on Mattel's current reporting structure for revenues:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table provides a summary of Mattel's consolidated gross sales by brand results for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, as presented in Mattel's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

29

Results of Operations

2019 Compared to 2018 

Consolidated Results

Net sales for 2019 were $4.50 billion, as compared to $4.51 billion in 2018. Net loss for 2019 was $213.5 million, or $0.62 loss per share, as compared to a net loss of $533.3 million, or $1.55 loss per share, in 2018, primarily due to higher gross profit and lower selling and administrative expenses. Net loss for 2019 included the impact of approximately $38 million related to the inclined sleeper product recalls, of which approximately $6 million was a reduction to net sales, approximately $22 million was included in cost of sales, and approximately $10 million was included in other selling and administrative expenses. Net loss for 2018 includes a sales reversal of approximately $30 million and bad debt expense, net of approximately $32 million as a result of the Toys "R" Us liquidation.

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated results for 2019 and 2018: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/m - Not Meaningful

30

Sales

Net sales for 2019 were $4.50 billion as compared to $4.51 billion in 2018.

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated gross sales by categories, along with supplemental information by brand for 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________________________________ 

 (a) Mattel modified its reporting structure for revenues in the first quarter of 2019 to disclose revenues by categories.

Gross sales were $5.06 billion in 2019, as compared to $5.08 billion in 2018, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. Gross sales in 2018 included the Toys "R" Us sales reversal of approximately $30 million. The decrease in gross sales was primarily due to lower sales of Infant, Toddler, and Preschool, substantially offset by higher sales of Action Figures, Building Sets, and Games. 

Gross sales of Dolls remained flat year-over-year, with declines of American Girl products, primarily driven by lower sales in proprietary retail and direct channels, substantially offset by higher sales of Barbie products, primarily driven by strong brand POS momentum in concert with Barbie’s 60th anniversary.

Of the 11% decrease in Infant, Toddler, and Preschool gross sales, 5% was due to lower sales of Fisher-Price Friends products, primarily driven by the rationalization of licensing partnerships, and 4% was due to lower sales of Fisher-Price and Thomas & Friends products.

Of the 3% increase in Vehicles gross sales, 8% was due to higher sales of Hot Wheels products, primarily due to higher sales of diecast cars, and tracks and playsets products, partially offset by lower sales of CARS products of 3% and lower sales of Jurassic World products of 1% following their movie launches in prior years.

Of the 14% increase in Action Figures, Building Sets, and Games gross sales, 22% was due to initial sales of Toy Story 4 products coinciding with its 2019 theatrical release, partially offset by lower sales of Jurassic World products of 8% following the movie launch in the prior year.

31

Cost of Sales

Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 56.0% in 2019, as compared to 60.2% in 2018. Cost of sales in 2019 included the impact of approximately $22 million related to the inclined sleeper product recalls. Cost of sales decreased by $192.3 million, or 7%, to $2.52 billion in 2019 from $2.72 billion in 2018, as compared to flat net sales. Within cost of sales, product and other costs decreased by $149.8 million, or 7%, to $2.00 billion in 2019 from $2.15 billion in 2018; freight and logistics expenses decreased by $38.8 million, or 11%, to $305.4 million in 2019 from $344.2 million in 2018; and royalty expense decreased by $3.7 million, or 2%, to $220.2 million in 2019 from $224.0 million in 2018.

Gross Margin

Gross margin increased to 44.0% in 2019 from 39.8% in 2018. Gross margin in 2019 included the impact of approximately $28 million related to the inclined sleeper product recalls. The increase in gross margin was primarily driven by incremental Structural Simplification savings, partially offset by input cost inflation due to higher plant labor costs. 

Advertising and Promotion Expenses

Advertising and promotion expenses primarily consist of: (i) media costs, which primarily include the media, planning, and buying fees for television, print, and online advertisements, (ii) non-media costs, which primarily include commercial and website production, merchandising, and promotional costs, (iii) retail advertising costs, which primarily include consumer direct catalogs, newspaper inserts, fliers, and mailers, and (iv) generic advertising costs, which primarily include trade show costs. Advertising and promotion expenses as a percentage of net sales increased to 12.2% in 2019 from 11.6% in 2018, primarily driven by strategic advertising investments in the fourth quarter.

Other Selling and Administrative Expenses

Other selling and administrative expenses were $1.39 billion, or 30.9% of net sales, in 2019, as compared to $1.51 billion, or 33.4% of net sales, in 2018. The decrease in other selling and administrative expenses was primarily driven by incremental Structural Simplification savings, lower severance and other restructuring charges, and a benefit from the absence of the 2018 Toys "R" Us bad debt expense of approximately $32 million. This was partially offset by higher incentive compensation expense due to improved business performance, a $25.9 million impairment charge related to certain American Girl retail store assets, as a result of lower fourth quarter sales in certain retail stores, and the impact of the inclined sleeper product recalls of approximately $10 million. 

Interest Expense

Interest expense was $201.0 million in 2019, as compared to $181.9 million in 2018. The increase in interest expense was primarily due to debt extinguishment costs of $9.2 million associated with the early redemption of the 2010 Senior Notes due October 1, 2020 and the 2016 Senior Notes due August 12, 2021, and higher interest rates associated with the 2019 Senior Notes. 

Provision for Income Taxes

Mattel’s provision for income taxes was $55.2 million in 2019, as compared to $116.2 million in 2018. The 2019 income tax provision included a $13.4 million tax benefit related to the release of valuation allowances in certain foreign tax jurisdictions, and a $16.9 million tax benefit related to reassessments of prior year’s tax liabilities based on the status of audits and settlements in various jurisdictions. The 2018 income tax provision included a $14.6 million expense related to changes to its indefinite reinvestment assertion and a $3.7 million expense related to the deemed repatriation of accumulated foreign earnings (net of related valuation allowance change). 

32

Segment Results

North America Segment

Net sales for the North America segment were $2.28 billion in 2019, an increase of $3.0 million as compared to $2.27 billion in 2018.

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales for the North America segment by categories, along with supplemental information by brand, for 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________________________________ 

 (a) Mattel modified its reporting structure for revenues in the first quarter of 2019 to disclose revenues by categories.

Gross sales for the North America segment were $2.43 billion in 2019, an increase of $10.2 million, as compared to $2.42 billion in 2018, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. Gross sales in 2018 included the Toys "R" Us sales reversal of approximately $27 million. The increase in the North America segment gross sales was primarily due to higher sales of Action Figures, Building Sets, and Games, as well as Vehicles, and Dolls, substantially offset by lower sales of Infant, Toddler, and Preschool. 

Of the 2% increase in Dolls gross sales, 4% was due to higher sales of Barbie products, partially offset by lower sales of Enchantimals products of 2%.

Of the 10% decrease in Infant, Toddler, and Preschool gross sales, 5% was due to lower sales of Fisher-Price Friends products, primarily driven by the rationalization of licensing partnerships, 2% was due to lower sales of Power Wheels products, and 2% was due to lower sales of Fisher-Price and Thomas & Friends products.

Of the 5% increase in Vehicles gross sales, 9% was due to higher sales of Hot Wheels products, primarily due to higher sales of diecast cars, and tracks and playsets products, partially offset by lower sales of Jurassic World products of 2% and lower sales of CARS products of 2% following their movie launches in prior years.

Of the 11% increase in Action Figures, Building Sets, and Games gross sales, 20% was due to initial sales of Toy Story 4 products coinciding with its 2019 theatrical release and 4% was due to higher sales of MEGA products, partially offset by lower sales of Jurassic World products of 10% following the movie launch in the prior year.

33

Cost of sales decreased 7% in 2019, as compared to flat net sales, primarily due to lower product and other costs and lower freight and logistics expense. Cost of sales in 2019 included the impact of approximately $21 million related to the inclined sleeper product recalls. Gross margin in 2019 increased primarily due to incremental Structural Simplification savings and a benefit from the absence of the first quarter of 2018 Toys "R" Us sales reversal of approximately $27 million, partially offset by input cost inflation due to higher plant labor costs and the impact of the inclined sleeper product recalls of approximately $26 million.

North America segment income was $357.0 million in 2019, as compared to segment income of $220.8 million in 2018, primarily due to higher gross profit and lower other selling and administrative expenses, partially offset by higher advertising and promotion expenses. North America segment income for 2019 included the impact of the inclined sleeper product recalls of approximately $32 million. North America segment income for 2018 included the net sales reversal and bad debt expense, net attributable to the Toy "R" Us liquidation of approximately $48 million.

International Segment

Net sales for the International segment were $1.97 billion in 2019, an increase of $57.0 million as compared to $1.92 billion in 2018.

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales for the International segment by categories, along with supplemental brand information, for 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________________________________ 

 (a) Mattel modified its reporting structure for revenues in the first quarter of 2019 to disclose revenues by categories.

Gross sales for the International segment were $2.36 billion in 2019, an increase of $51.6 million, or 2%, as compared to $2.31 billion in 2018, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 4 percentage points. The increase in the International segment gross sales was primarily due to higher sales of Action Figures, Building Sets, and Games, as well as Dolls, and Vehicles, partially offset by lower sales of Infant, Toddler, and Preschool. 

Of the 7% increase in Dolls gross sales, 6% was due to higher sales of Barbie products, primarily driven by strong brand POS momentum in concert with Barbie’s 60th anniversary, and 2% was due to higher sales of Polly Pocket products.

Of the 13% decrease in Infant, Toddler, and Preschool gross sales, 6% was due to lower sales of Fisher-Price and Thomas & Friends products and 5% was due to lower sales of Fisher-Price Friends products.

34

Of the 2% increase in Vehicles gross sales, 8% was due to higher sales of Hot Wheels products, partially offset by lower sales of CARS products of 4% and lower sales of Jurassic World products of 1% following their movie launches in prior years.

Of the 18% increase in Action Figures, Building Sets, and Games gross sales, 23% was due to initial sales of Toy Story 4 products coinciding with its 2019 theatrical release, partially offset by lower sales of Jurassic World products of 5% following the movie launch in the prior year.

Cost of sales decreased 5% in 2019, as compared to a 3% increase in net sales, primarily due to lower product and other costs. Gross margin in 2019 increased primarily due to incremental Structural Simplification savings and price increases, partially offset by input cost inflation due to higher plant labor costs.

International segment income was $166.9 million in 2019, as compared to a segment income of $13.9 million in 2018, primarily due to higher gross profit and lower other selling and administrative expenses.

American Girl Segment

Net sales for the American Girl segment were $256.6 million in 2019, a decrease of $70.2 million as compared to $326.8 million in 2018.

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales for the American Girl segment for 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales for the American Girl segment were $268.5 million in 2019, a decrease of $72.7 million, or 21%, as compared to $341.2 million in 2018. The decrease in American Girl gross sales was primarily due to lower sales in proprietary retail and direct channels.

 Cost of sales decreased 23% in 2019, as compared to a 21% decrease in net sales, primarily due to lower product and other costs. Gross margin in 2019 increased primarily due to incremental Structural Simplification savings, lower obsolescence expense, favorable product mix, partially offset by higher freight and logistics expense, the unfavorable impact of fixed cost absorption due to lower sales, and input cost inflation due to higher plant labor costs.

American Girl segment loss was $58.8 million in 2019, as compared to segment loss of $17.7 million in 2018, driven primarily by lower net sales and a $25.9 million impairment charge related to certain American Girl retail store assets, as a result of lower fourth quarter sales in certain retail stores.

Cost Savings Programs

Structural Simplification Cost Savings Program

During the third quarter of 2017, Mattel initiated its Structural Simplification cost savings program. As of December 31, 2019, Mattel successfully completed its Structural Simplification cost savings program and achieved $875 million of run-rate savings, exceeding the program's target of $650 million. 

The major initiatives of the Structural Simplification cost savings program included:

•Reducing manufacturing complexity, including SKU reduction, and implementing process improvement initiatives at owned and co-manufacturing facilities;

•Streamlining the organizational structure and reducing headcount expense to better align with the revenue base; and

•Optimizing advertising spend.

35

Mattel realized cost savings (before severance, investments, and cost inflation) of approximately $366 million (approximately $219 million within gross profit, approximately $123 million within other selling and administrative expenses, and approximately $24 million within advertising and promotion expenses) during the year ended December 31, 2019 in connection with the program. 

Mattel recorded severance and other restructuring charges of $21.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 in connection with the program. Of the total charges recorded during the year ended December 31, 2019, $11.7 million relate to severance charges and $9.8 million relate to other restructuring costs, which consisted primarily of consulting fees and other termination costs. Mattel recorded severance and other restructuring charges of $109.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2018. Of the total charges recorded during the year ended December 31, 2018, $62.9 million relate to severance charges and $47.0 million relate to other restructuring costs. Of the $47.0 million of other restructuring costs, $5.7 million relate to non-cash plant restructuring charges, and the remainder consists primarily of consulting fees. Mattel has recorded cumulative severance and other restructuring charges of $176.5 million in connection with the program.

Capital Light Program

During the first quarter of 2019, Mattel announced the commencement of its Capital Light program to optimize Mattel's manufacturing footprint (including the sale or consolidation of manufacturing facilities), increase the productivity of its plant infrastructure, and achieve additional efficiencies across its entire supply chain. In conjunction with the Capital Light program, Mattel discontinued production in 2019 at certain plants located in China, Indonesia, and Mexico. In addition to the discontinued production at the three plants, Mattel announced that it will discontinue production in 2020 at its plant located in Canada. Mattel recorded severance and other restructuring charges of $37.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 in connection with the program. Of the total charges recorded during the year ended December 31, 2019, $19.0 million was recorded within other selling and administrative expenses which is included in Corporate and Other expense and of the $18.6 million recorded within cost of sales in the consolidated statements of operations, $10.4 million, $8.0 million and $0.2 million are included in North America, International, and American Girl segments, respectively, which is presented within segment income (loss) in "Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information."

To date, Mattel has recorded cumulative severance and other restructuring charges of $37.6 million, including non-cash charges of approximately $11 million, in connection with the program and currently expects to incur total severance and restructuring charges, excluding non-cash charges, of approximately $35 million. Mattel is currently evaluating other cost saving measures, including the optimization of owned and operated manufacturing facilities and the geographical footprint of co-manufacturing facilities, which may result in incremental cost savings. Mattel expects to realize cumulative run-rate cost savings of approximately $65 million in 2020, and $72 million by 2021 related to the Capital Light program actions taken to date. 

Mattel realized cost savings (before severance, restructuring costs, and cost inflation) of approximately $15 million, primarily within gross profit, during the year ended December 31, 2019 in connection with the program. 

Income Taxes

Mattel’s provision for income taxes was $55.2 million in 2019, as compared to $116.2 million in 2018. The 2019 income tax provision included a $13.4 million tax benefit related to the release of valuation allowances in certain foreign tax jurisdictions, and a $16.9 million tax benefit related to reassessments of prior year’s tax liabilities based on the status of audits and settlements in various jurisdictions. The 2018 income tax provision included a $14.6 million expense related to changes to Mattel's indefinite reinvestment assertion and a $3.7 million expense related to the deemed repatriation of accumulated foreign earnings (net of related valuation allowance change).

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Mattel’s primary sources of liquidity are its cash and equivalents balances, including access to earnings of its foreign subsidiaries, short-term borrowing facilities, including its $1.60 billion senior secured revolving credit facilities ("the senior secured revolving credit facilities"), and issuances of long-term debt securities. Cash flows from operating activities could be negatively impacted by decreased demand for Mattel’s products, which could result from factors such as adverse economic conditions and changes in public and consumer preferences, or by increased costs associated with manufacturing and distribution of products or shortages in raw materials or component parts. Additionally, Mattel’s ability to issue long-term debt and obtain seasonal financing could be adversely affected by factors such as global economic crises and tight credit environments, an inability to meet its debt covenant requirements and its senior secured revolving credit facility covenants, or a deterioration of Mattel’s credit ratings. Mattel’s ability to conduct its operations could be negatively impacted should these or other adverse conditions affect its primary sources of liquidity.

36

Of Mattel’s $630.0 million in cash and equivalents as of December 31, 2019, approximately $338 million was held by foreign subsidiaries. Mattel has several liquidity options to fund its operations and obligations; such obligations may include investing and financing activities such as debt service, dividends, and share repurchases. Cash flows generated by its worldwide operations, the senior secured revolving credit facilities, alternative forms of financing, and access to capital markets are available to fund Mattel's operations and obligations. 

The U.S. Tax Act, enacted on December 22, 2017, provides Mattel with a reduced cost to access the earnings of its foreign subsidiaries. As such, Mattel has evaluated its intentions related to its indefinite reinvestment assertion and has recorded a $11.9 million tax charge related to approximately $505 million of foreign earnings that will not be indefinitely reinvested.

With the passage of the U.S. Tax Act, repatriations of foreign cash generally will not be taxable for U.S. federal income tax, but may be subject to state income tax and/or foreign withholding tax, in addition to any local country distribution requirements.

Current Market Conditions

Mattel is exposed to financial market risk resulting from changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. Mattel continues to actively manage its capital structure and believes that it has sufficient liquidity to run its business.

Subject to market conditions, Mattel intends to utilize its senior secured revolving credit facilities or alternative forms of financing to meet its short-term liquidity needs. As of December 31, 2019, there were no amounts outstanding under the senior secured revolving credit facilities. Market conditions could affect certain terms of other debt instruments that Mattel enters into from time to time.

Mattel monitors the third-party depository institutions that hold Mattel's cash and equivalents. Mattel’s emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal, and secondarily on maximizing the yield on those funds. Mattel diversifies its cash and equivalents among counterparties and securities to minimize risks.

Mattel is subject to credit risks relating to the ability of its counterparties in hedging transactions to meet their contractual payment obligations. The risks related to creditworthiness and nonperformance have been considered in the fair value measurements of Mattel’s foreign currency forward exchange contracts. Mattel closely monitors its counterparties and takes action, as necessary, to manage its counterparty credit risk.

Mattel expects that some of its customers and vendors may experience difficulty in obtaining the liquidity required to buy inventory or raw materials. Mattel monitors its customers’ financial condition and their liquidity in order to mitigate Mattel’s accounts receivable collectibility risks, and customer terms and credit limits are adjusted, if necessary. Additionally, Mattel uses a variety of financial arrangements to ensure collectibility of accounts receivable of customers deemed to be a credit risk, including requiring letters of credit, factoring, purchasing various forms of credit insurance with unrelated third parties, or requiring cash in advance of shipment. As a result of the Toys "R" Us liquidation in the first quarter of 2018, Mattel reversed net sales that occurred during the first quarter of 2018 and related accounts receivable of approximately $30 million. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2018, Mattel recorded bad debt expense, net of approximately $32 million, related to outstanding Toys "R" Us receivables at the time of liquidation.

Mattel sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for its employees. Actual returns below the expected rate of return, along with changes in interest rates that affect the measurement of the liability, would impact the amount and timing of Mattel’s future contributions to these plans.

Operating Activities

Cash flows provided by operating activities were $181.0 million during 2019, as compared to cash used for operating activities of $27.3 million during 2018. The change in cash flows provided by (used for) operating activities in 2019 from 2018 was primarily driven by a lower net loss, excluding the impact of non-cash charges. 

Investing Activities

Cash flows used for investing activities were $114.2 million during 2019, as compared to $160.8 million during 2018. The change in cash flows used for investing activities in 2019 from 2018 was primarily driven by lower capital spending and lower payments for foreign currency forward exchange contracts. 

37

Financing Activities

Cash flows used for financing activities were $33.1 million during 2019, as compared to $285.2 million during 2018. The change in cash flows from financing activities in 2019 from 2018 was primarily driven by repayments of long-term borrowings, net of $278 million in 2018. 

During 2019 and 2018, Mattel did not repurchase any shares of its common stock. Mattel's share repurchase program was first announced on July 21, 2003. On July 17, 2013, the Board of Directors authorized Mattel to increase its share repurchase program by $500.0 million. At December 31, 2019, share repurchase authorizations of $203.0 million had not been executed. Repurchases under the program will take place from time to time, depending on market conditions. Mattel's share repurchase program has no expiration date. 

During 2019 and 2018, Mattel did not pay any dividends to holders of its common stock. The payment of dividends on common stock is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and is subject to customary limitations.

Seasonal Financing

See Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Seasonal Financing and Debt."

Credit Rating

In 2019, Fitch maintained Mattel's long-term credit rating of B- and changed its outlook from negative to positive. In 2019, Moody's maintained Mattel's long-term credit rating of B1, with a stable outlook. In 2019, Standard & Poor's maintained Mattel's long-term credit rating of BB-, with a negative outlook.

Financial Position

Mattel’s cash and equivalents increased $35.5 million to $630.0 million at December 31, 2019, as compared to $594.5 million at December 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by capital expenditures and debt issuance costs related to refinancing of senior notes.

Accounts receivable decreased $33.7 million to $936.4 million at December 31, 2019, as compared to $970.1 million at December 31, 2018. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to lower fourth quarter sales. Inventory decreased $47.4 million to $495.5 million at December 31, 2019, as compared to $542.9 million at December 31, 2018. The decrease in inventory was primarily due to tighter inventory control and better demand management, and lower product costs as a result of Structural Simplification cost savings.

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities remained flat at $1.23 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018. The change in accounts payable and accrued liabilities was due to the establishment of short term lease liabilities in 2019 upon adoption of the new lease standard offset by lower accounts payable as a result of timing of payments. 

As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, Mattel had $0 and $4.2 million, respectively, of short-term borrowings outstanding. 

38

A summary of Mattel’s capitalization is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total long-term debt remained flat at $2.8 billion at December 31, 2019. Mattel used the proceeds from the issuance of $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.875% senior unsecured notes due December 15, 2027 ("2019 Senior Notes") to redeem and retire its $250.0 million of 2010 Senior Notes due October 2020 and $350.0 million of 2016 Senior Notes due August 2021.

Stockholders’ equity decreased $175.2 million to $491.7 million at December 31, 2019, as compared to $666.9 million at December 31, 2018, primarily due to the net loss for the year.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Mattel is required to provide standby letters of credit to support certain obligations that arise in the ordinary course of business and may choose to provide letters of credit in place of posting cash collateral. Although the letters of credit are off-balance sheet, the majority of the obligations in which they relate are reflected as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. Outstanding letters of credit totaled approximately $57 million as of December 31, 2019. 

Commitments

In the normal course of business, Mattel enters into debt agreements, and contractual arrangements to obtain and protect Mattel’s right to create and market certain products and for future purchases of goods and services to ensure availability and timely delivery. These arrangements include commitments for royalty payments pursuant to licensing agreements, which routinely contain provisions for guarantees or minimum expenditures during the terms of the contracts, and future inventory and service purchases. Mattel also has defined benefit and postretirement benefit plans, which require future cash contributions and benefit payments. Additionally, Mattel routinely enters into noncancelable lease agreements for premises and equipment used, which contain minimum rental payments.

39

The following table summarizes Mattel’s contractual commitments and obligations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Liabilities for uncertain tax positions for which a cash tax payment is not expected to be made in the next twelve months are classified as other noncurrent liabilities. Due to the uncertainty about the periods in which examinations will be completed and limited information related to current audits, Mattel is not able to make reasonably reliable estimates of the periods in which cash settlements will occur with taxing authorities for the noncurrent liabilities.

Litigation

The content of Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation" is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 7.

Effects of Inflation

Inflation rates in the U.S. and in major foreign countries where Mattel does business have not had a significant impact on its results of operations or financial position during 2019 or 2018. Mattel receives some protection from the impact of inflation from high turnover of inventories and its ability, under certain circumstances and at certain times, to pass on higher prices to its customers.

Employee Savings Plan

Mattel sponsors a 401(k) savings plan, the Mattel, Inc. Personal Investment Plan (the "Plan"), for its domestic employees. Contributions to the Plan include voluntary contributions by eligible employees and employer automatic and matching contributions by Mattel. The Plan allows employees to allocate both their voluntary contributions and their employer automatic and matching contributions to a variety of investment funds, including a fund that is invested in Mattel common stock (the "Mattel Stock Fund"). Employees are not required to allocate any of their Plan account balance to the Mattel Stock Fund, allowing employees to limit or eliminate their exposure to market changes in Mattel’s stock price. Furthermore, the Plan limits the percentage of the employee’s total account balance that may be allocated to the Mattel Stock Fund to 25%. Employees may generally reallocate their account balances on a daily basis. However, pursuant to Mattel’s insider trading policy, employees classified as insiders and restricted personnel under Mattel’s insider trading policy are limited to certain periods in which they may make allocations into or out of the Mattel Stock Fund.

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Mattel makes certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. The accounting policies and estimates described below are those Mattel considers most critical in preparing its consolidated financial statements. Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of its Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosures included below. These accounting policies and estimates include significant judgments made by management using information available at the time the estimates are made. As described below, however, these estimates could change materially if different information or assumptions were used instead.

40

For a summary of Mattel’s significant accounting policies, estimates, and methods used in the preparation of Mattel’s consolidated financial statements, see Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies." In most instances, Mattel must use an accounting policy or method because it is the only policy or method permitted under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP").

Accounts Receivable—Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

The allowance for doubtful accounts represents adjustments to customer trade accounts receivable for amounts deemed partially or entirely uncollectible. Management believes the accounting estimate related to the allowance for doubtful accounts is a "critical accounting estimate" because significant changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimate could materially affect key financial measures, including other selling and administrative expenses, net income, and accounts receivable. In addition, the allowance requires a high degree of judgment since it involves estimation of the impact of both current and future economic factors in relation to its customers’ ability to pay amounts owed to Mattel.

Mattel’s products are sold throughout the world. Products within the North America segment are sold directly to retailers, including discount and free-standing toy stores, chain stores, department stores, other retail outlets and, to a limited extent, wholesalers, and directly to consumers. Products within the International segment are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence.

In recent years, the mass-market retail channel has experienced significant shifts in market share among competitors, causing some large retailers to experience liquidity problems. Mattel’s sales to customers are typically made on credit without collateral and are highly concentrated in the third and fourth quarters due to the seasonal nature of toy sales, which results in a substantial portion of trade receivables being collected during the latter half of the year and the first quarter of the following year. There is a risk that customers will not pay, or that payment may be delayed, because of bankruptcy or other factors beyond the control of Mattel. This could increase Mattel’s exposure to losses from bad debts.

A small number of customers account for a large share of Mattel’s net sales and accounts receivable. In 2019, Mattel’s two largest customers, Walmart and Target, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 32% of net sales, and its ten largest customers, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 49% of net sales. As of December 31, 2019, Mattel’s two largest customers accounted for approximately 31% of net accounts receivable, and its ten largest customers accounted for approximately 50% of net accounts receivable. The concentration of Mattel’s business with a relatively small number of customers may expose Mattel to a material adverse effect if one or more of Mattel’s large customers were to experience financial difficulty. 

Mattel has procedures to mitigate its risk of exposure to losses from bad debts. Credit limits and payment terms are established based on the underlying criteria that collectibility must be reasonably assured at the levels set for each customer. Extensive evaluations are performed on an ongoing basis throughout the fiscal year of each customer’s financial performance, cash generation, financing availability, and liquidity status. Customers are reviewed at least annually, with more frequent reviews being performed, if necessary, based on the customers’ financial condition and the level of credit being extended. For customers who are experiencing financial difficulties, management performs additional financial analyses prior to shipping to those customers on credit. Customers’ terms and credit limits are adjusted or revoked, if necessary, to reflect the results of the review. Mattel uses a variety of financial arrangements to ensure collectibility of accounts receivable of customers deemed to be a credit risk, including requiring letters of credit, factoring, purchasing various forms of credit insurance with unrelated third parties, or requiring cash in advance of shipment.

The following table summarizes Mattel’s allowance for doubtful accounts:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mattel’s allowance for doubtful accounts is based on management’s assessment of the business environment, customers’ financial condition, historical collection experience, accounts receivable aging, and customer disputes. Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts reflect management’s assessment of the factors noted above, including past due accounts, disputed balances with customers, and the financial condition of customers. The allowance for doubtful accounts is also affected by the time at which uncollectible accounts receivable balances are actually written off.

41

Mattel believes that its allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2019 is adequate and proper. However, as described above, Mattel’s business is greatly dependent on a small number of customers. Should one or more of Mattel’s major customers experience liquidity problems, the allowance for doubtful accounts may not be sufficient to cover such losses. Any incremental bad debt charges would negatively affect the results of operations of one or more of Mattel’s business segments.

Inventories—Allowance for Obsolescence

Inventories, net of an allowance for excess quantities and obsolescence, are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Inventory obsolescence reserves are recorded for damaged, obsolete, excess, and slow-moving inventory. Inventory allowances are charged to cost of sales and establish a lower cost basis for the inventory. Management believes that the accounting estimate related to the allowance for obsolescence is a "critical accounting estimate" because changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimate could materially affect key financial measures, including gross profit, net income, and inventories. As more fully described below, valuation of Mattel’s inventory could be impacted by changes in public and consumer preferences, demand for product, or changes in the buying patterns of both retailers and consumers and inventory management of customers.

In the toy industry, orders are typically subject to cancellation or change at any time prior to shipment. Actual shipments of products ordered and order cancellation rates are affected by consumer acceptance of product lines, strength of competing products, marketing strategies of retailers, changes in buying patterns of both retailers and consumers, and overall economic conditions. Unexpected changes in these factors could result in excess inventory in a particular product line, which would require management to record a valuation adjustment on such inventory.

Mattel bases its production schedules for toy products on customer orders and forecasts, taking into account historical trends, results of market research, and current market information. Mattel ships products in accordance with delivery schedules specified by its customers, who usually request delivery within three months. In anticipation of retail sales in the traditional holiday season, Mattel significantly increases its production in advance of the peak selling period, resulting in a corresponding build-up of inventory levels in the first three quarters of its fiscal year. These seasonal purchasing patterns and requisite production lead times create risk to Mattel’s business associated with the underproduction of popular toys and the overproduction of toys that do not match consumer demand. Retailers are also attempting to manage their inventories more tightly, requiring Mattel to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. These factors increase inventory valuation risk since Mattel’s inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed.

When current conditions in the domestic and global economies become uncertain, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts of the economy, including the economies in which Mattel participates. Because all components of Mattel’s budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets it serves and demand for its products, economic uncertainty makes estimates of future demand for product more difficult. Such economic changes may affect the sales of Mattel’s products and its corresponding inventory levels, which could potentially impact the valuation of its inventory.

At the end of each quarter, management within each business segment, North America, International, and American Girl, performs a detailed review of its inventory on an item-by-item basis and identifies products that are believed to be impaired. Management assesses the need for, and the amount of, an obsolescence reserve based on the following factors: 

•Customer and/or consumer demand for the item;

•Overall inventory positions of Mattel’s customers;

•Strength of competing products in the market;

•Quantity on hand of the item;

•Sales price of the item;

•Mattel’s cost for the item; and

•Length of time the item has been in inventory.

The timeframe between when an estimate is made and the time of disposal depends on the above factors and may vary significantly. Generally, slow-moving inventory is liquidated during the next annual selling cycle.

42

The following table summarizes Mattel’s obsolescence reserve:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Management believes that its allowance for obsolescence at December 31, 2019 is adequate and proper. However, the impact resulting from the aforementioned factors could cause actual results to vary. Any incremental obsolescence charges would negatively affect the results of operations of one or more of Mattel’s business segments.

Goodwill 

Mattel tests goodwill for impairment annually or more often if an event or circumstance indicates that an impairment may have occurred. Management believes that the accounting estimates related to the fair value estimates of its goodwill are "critical accounting estimates" because significant changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimates could materially affect key financial measures, including net income, goodwill, and other intangible assets.

Assessing goodwill for impairment involves a high degree of judgment due to the assumptions that underlie the valuation. For purposes of evaluating whether goodwill is impaired, goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are at the operating segment level. Mattel’s reporting units are: (i) North America, (ii) International, and (iii) American Girl. Mattel then assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. This qualitative assessment is used as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test. 

When the quantitative goodwill impairment test is necessary, impairment is determined by estimating the fair value of a reporting unit and comparing that value to the reporting unit’s carrying value. In the third quarter of 2017, Mattel early adopted ASU 2017-04 Intangibles - Goodwill and Other: Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment, which removes Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to the excess, limited by the amount of goodwill in that reporting unit.

When performing the quantitative goodwill impairment test, Mattel utilizes the fair value based upon both the discounted cash flows that the business can be expected to generate in the future (the "Income Approach") and the market approach. The Income Approach valuation method requires Mattel to make projections of revenue, operating costs, and working capital investment for the reporting unit over a multi-year period. Additionally, management must make an estimate of a weighted-average cost of capital that a market participant would use as a discount rate. Changes in these projections or estimates would impact the estimated fair value, which could significantly change the amount of any impairment ultimately recorded. The market approach utilizes earnings multiples of comparable public companies, which are reflective of the market in which each respective reporting unit operates, and recent comparable market transactions. The market approach is utilized for the North America and International Reporting Units.

In the third quarter of 2019, Mattel performed its annual impairment test and determined that goodwill was not impaired since each reporting unit's fair value exceeded its carrying value. 

Based upon the results of the annual impairment test, the fair value of the North America reporting unit was substantially in excess of its carrying value. The estimated fair value of the American Girl and International reporting units had more than 25% excess fair value over its carrying value. 

The fair value of the American Girl reporting unit is impacted by expected sales growth, gross margin, operating costs, working capital investments, and discount rate. The estimates of gross margin, operating costs and working capital investments tend to be fairly predictable in relation to gross sales. The estimates of future sales growth tend to be one of the more significant estimates in determining the overall fair value of the American Girl reporting unit. The current forecast includes significant moderation in the decline of sales in the near term resulting from recently launched growth initiatives, followed by significant growth in sales from current levels as it continues to increase consumer engagement in the brand. In addition, the fair value of the American Girl reporting unit decreased significantly from the prior year as a result of the increase in discount rate from 9.5% to 12%, due to a specific risk premium. If American Girl is unable to successfully execute its plan to increase sales through the renewal of consumer interest in the brand and its products, goodwill may be impaired. 

43

The fair value of the International reporting unit is impacted by expected sales growth, gross margin, operating costs, working capital investments, and discount rate. The valuation of the International reporting unit decreased as a result of the increase in discount rate from the prior year, from 11% to 12.5%. The valuation model assumes incremental growth in sales and gross margin from current levels. If Mattel is unable to successfully execute its plans in international markets to achieve further growth in emerging markets, improve gross margin, or has lower-than-expected market demand, goodwill may be impaired.

In the third quarter of 2018, Mattel performed its annual impairment test and determined that goodwill was not impaired since each reporting unit's fair value exceeded its carrying value.

Sales Adjustments

Mattel routinely enters into arrangements with its customers to provide sales incentives, support customer promotions, and provide allowances for returns and defective merchandise. Such programs are based primarily on customer purchases, customer performance of specified promotional activities, and other specified factors such as sales to consumers. Accruals for these programs are recorded as sales adjustments that reduce gross sales in the period the related sale is recognized. Sales adjustments for such programs totaled $560.0 million and $560.7 million during 2019 and 2018, respectively.

The above-described programs primarily involve fixed amounts or percentages of sales to customers. The accrual for such programs, which can either be contractual or discretionary in nature, is based on an assessment of customer purchases, customer performance of specified promotional activities, and other specified factors such as customer sales volume. While the majority of sales adjustment amounts are readily determinable at period end and do not require estimates, certain of the sales adjustments (i.e., discretionary sales adjustments) require management to make estimates. In making these estimates, management considers all available information, including the overall business environment, historical trends, and information from customers. Management believes that the accruals recorded for customer programs as of December 31, 2019 are adequate and proper.

Benefit Plan Assumptions

Mattel and certain of its subsidiaries have retirement and other postretirement benefit plans covering substantially all employees of these companies. See Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Employee Benefit Plans."

Actuarial valuations are used in determining amounts recognized in the financial statements for certain retirement and other postretirement benefit plans. These valuations incorporate the following significant assumptions: 

•Weighted-average discount rate to be used to measure future plan obligations and interest cost component of plan income or expense;

•Rate of future compensation increases (for defined benefit pension plans);

•Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (for funded plans); and

•Health care cost trend rates (for other postretirement benefit plans).

Management believes that these assumptions are "critical accounting estimates" because significant changes in these assumptions could impact Mattel’s results of operations and financial position. Management believes that the assumptions utilized to record its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on the plans’ experience and advice received from its outside actuaries. Mattel reviews its benefit plan assumptions annually and modifies its assumptions based on current rates and trends as appropriate. The effects of such changes in assumptions are amortized as part of plan income or expense in future periods.

At the end of each fiscal year, Mattel determines the weighted-average discount rate used to calculate the projected benefit obligation. The discount rate is an estimate of the current interest rate at which the benefit plan liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year. The discount rate also impacts the interest cost component of plan income or expense. As of December 31, 2019, Mattel determined the discount rate for its domestic benefit plans used in determining the projected and accumulated benefit obligations to be 3.0%, as compared to 4.1% as of December 31, 2018. In estimating this rate, Mattel reviews rates of return on high-quality corporate bond indices, which approximate the timing and amount of benefit payments. Assuming all other benefit plan assumptions remain constant, the decrease in the discount rate from 4.1% to 3.0% would result in a decrease in benefit plan expense during 2020 of $0.6 million.

As a result of the curtailment of Mattel's domestic defined benefit pension plans, the rate of future compensation increase was not applicable for the 2019 and 2018 benefit obligation and net periodic pension cost calculations. 

44

The long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on management’s expectation of earnings on the assets that secure Mattel’s funded defined benefit pension plans, taking into account the mix of invested assets, the arithmetic average of past returns, economic and stock market conditions and future expectations, and the long-term nature of the projected benefit obligation to which these investments relate. The long-term rate of return is used to calculate the expected return on plan assets that is used in calculating pension income or expense. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred, net of tax, and is included in accumulated other comprehensive loss. The net deferral of past asset gains or losses affects the calculated value of plan assets and, ultimately, future pension income or expense. Mattel’s long-term rate of return used in determining plan expense for its domestic defined benefit pension plans was 6.0% in 2019 and 2018. Assuming all other benefit plan assumptions remain constant, a one percentage point decrease in the expected return on plan assets would result in an increase in benefit plan expense during 2020 of $3.0 million.

The health care cost trend rates used by Mattel for its other postretirement benefit plans reflect management’s best estimate of expected claim costs over the next ten years. These trend rates impact the service and interest cost components of plan expense. Rates ranging from 7.0% in 2019 to 4.5% in 2025, with rates assumed to stabilize in 2025 and thereafter, were used in determining plan expense for 2019. These rates are reviewed annually and are estimated based on historical costs for participants in the other postretirement benefit plans as well as estimates based on current economic conditions. As of December 31, 2019, Mattel maintained the health care cost trend rates for its other postretirement benefit plan obligation at 7.0% for participants younger than age 65, and 6.8% for participants age 65 and older. For all participants, the cost trend rates are estimated to reduce to 4.5% by 2026, with rates assumed to stabilize in 2026. Assuming all other postretirement benefit plan assumptions remain constant, a one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would result in a minimal increase in benefit plan expense during 2020.

A one percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed health care cost trend rate for each future year would result in a minimal impact to the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2019 and the service and interest cost recognized for 2019.

Share-Based Payments

Mattel recognizes the cost of service-based employee share-based payment awards on a straight-line attribution basis over the requisite employee service period, net of estimated forfeitures. Determining the fair value of share-based awards at the measurement date requires judgment, including estimating the expected term that stock options will be outstanding prior to exercise, the associated volatility, and the expected dividends. With the exception of certain market-based options granted in 2018, which are valued using a Monte Carlo valuation methodology, Mattel estimates the fair value of options granted using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The expected life of the options used in this calculation is the period of time the options are expected to be outstanding and has been determined based on historical exercise experience. Expected stock price volatility is based on the historical volatility of Mattel’s stock for a period approximating the expected life, the expected dividend yield is based on Mattel’s most recent actual annual dividend payout, and the risk-free interest rate is based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues approximating the expected life. Judgment is also required in estimating the amount of share-based awards that will be forfeited prior to vesting. Management believes that these assumptions are "critical accounting estimates" because significant changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimates could materially affect key financial measures, including net income.

There were no market-based options granted during 2019. The weighted-average grant-date fair value of market-based options granted during 2018 valued using a Monte Carlo valuation methodology was $4.21. The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during 2019 and 2018, valued using the Black-Scholes valuation model was $5.09 and $5.46, respectively. The following weighted-average assumptions were used in determining the fair value of options granted:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

45

The following tables summarize the sensitivity of valuation assumptions within the calculation of stock option fair values, if all other assumptions are held constant:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mattel recognized compensation expense of $11.3 million and $8.4 million for stock options during 2019 and 2018, respectively, which is included within other selling and administrative expenses. Compensation expense recognized related to grants of restricted stock units ("RSUs"), including performance-based restricted stock units ("Performance RSUs"), was $44.6 million and $40.5 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively, and is also included within other selling and administrative expenses. As of December 31, 2019, total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based payments totaled $81.4 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.9 years.

Income Taxes 

Mattel accounts for income taxes in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 740—Income Taxes. Mattel’s income tax provision and related income tax assets and liabilities are based on actual and expected future income, U.S. and foreign statutory income tax rates, and tax regulations and planning opportunities in the various jurisdictions in which Mattel operates. Management believes that the accounting estimates related to income taxes are "critical accounting estimates" because significant judgment is required in interpreting tax regulations in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, evaluating Mattel’s worldwide uncertain tax positions, and assessing the likelihood of realizing certain tax benefits. Actual results could differ materially from those judgments, and changes in judgments could materially affect Mattel’s consolidated financial statements. 

Certain income and expense items are accounted for differently for financial reporting and income tax purposes. As a result, the income tax expense reflected in Mattel’s consolidated statements of operations is different than that reported in Mattel’s tax returns filed with the taxing authorities. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in Mattel’s tax return, and some are temporary differences that reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. These timing differences create deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Deferred income tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in Mattel’s tax returns in future years for which Mattel has already recorded a tax benefit in its consolidated statements of operations. Mattel records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred income tax assets if, based on the weight of available evidence, management believes expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of a deduction or credit in that jurisdiction. Management evaluates the level of Mattel’s valuation allowances at least annually, and more frequently if actual operating results differ significantly from forecasted results. 

Mattel records unrecognized tax benefits for U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign tax positions related primarily to transfer pricing, tax credits claimed, tax nexus, and apportionment. For each reporting period, management applies a consistent methodology to measure unrecognized tax benefits and all unrecognized tax benefits are reviewed periodically and adjusted as circumstances warrant. Mattel’s measurement of its unrecognized tax benefits is based on management’s assessment of all relevant information, including prior audit experience, the status of audits, conclusions of tax audits, lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, identification of new issues, and any administrative guidance or developments. Mattel recognizes unrecognized tax benefits in the first financial reporting period in which information becomes available indicating that such benefits will more-likely-than-not (a greater than 50 percent likelihood) be realized. 

46

In the normal course of business, Mattel is regularly audited by federal, state, local, and foreign tax authorities. The ultimate settlement of any particular issue with the applicable taxing authority could have a material impact on Mattel’s consolidated financial statements. 

New Accounting Pronouncements

See Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies."

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

To supplement the financial results presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, Mattel presents certain non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that Mattel presents include currency exchange rate impact and gross sales. Mattel uses these metrics to analyze its continuing operations and to monitor, assess, and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Mattel believes that the disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplemental information to investors to be able to better evaluate ongoing business performance and certain components of Mattel's results. These measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for GAAP financial measures and may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies.

Currency Exchange Rate Impact

The currency exchange rate impact reflects the portion (expressed as a percentage) of changes in Mattel's reported results that are attributable to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.

For entities reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, Mattel calculates the percentage change of period-over-period results at constant currency exchange rates (established as described below) by translating current period and prior period results using these rates. It then determines the currency exchange rate impact percentage by calculating the difference between the percentage change at such constant currency exchange rates and the percentage change at actual exchange rates.

The constant currency exchange rates are determined by Mattel at the beginning of each year and are applied consistently during the year. They are generally different from the actual exchange rates in effect during the current or prior period due to volatility in actual foreign exchange rates. Mattel considers whether any changes to the constant currency rates are appropriate at the beginning of each year. The exchange rates used for these constant currency calculations are generally based on prior year actual exchange rates.

Mattel believes that the disclosure of the percentage impact of foreign currency changes is useful supplemental information for investors to be able to gauge Mattel’s current business performance and the longer-term strength of its overall business since foreign currency changes could potentially mask underlying sales trends. The disclosure of the percentage impact of foreign exchange allows investors to calculate the impact on a constant currency basis and also enhances their ability to compare financial results from one period to another.

Gross Sales

Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Net sales, as reported, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, brand, and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel’s business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the details of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with brands and individual products, making net sales less meaningful. Because sales adjustments are not allocated to individual products, net sales are only presented on a consolidated and segment basis and not on a brand level.

Since sales adjustments are determined by customer rather than at the brand level, Mattel believes that the disclosure of gross sales by brand is useful supplemental information for investors to be able to assess the performance of its underlying brands (e.g., Barbie) and also enhances their ability to compare sales trends over time.

47

A reconciliation from Mattel's consolidated net sales to its consolidated gross sales is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A reconciliation from net sales to gross sales for the North America segment is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A reconciliation from net sales to gross sales for the International segment is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A reconciliation from net sales to gross sales for the American Girl segment is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

48

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.