PART I

Item 1.Business. 

Throughout this report "Mattel" refers to Mattel, Inc. and/or one or more of its family of companies. Mattel is a leading global children's entertainment company that specializes in the design and production of quality toys and consumer products. Mattel's products are among the most widely recognized toy products in the world. Mattel's mission is to "create innovative products and experiences that inspire, entertain, and develop children through play." In order to deliver on this mission, Mattel is focused on the following two-part strategy to transform Mattel from a toy manufacturing company into an intellectual property ("IP") driven, high-performing toy company:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•In the mid- to long-term, capture the full value of Mattel's IP through franchise management and the development of Mattel's online retail and e-commerce capabilities. 

Mattel is the owner of a portfolio of global brands with vast intellectual property potential. Mattel's portfolio of owned and licensed brands and products are organized into the following categories:

Dolls—including brands such as Barbie, American Girl, Enchantimals, and Polly Pocket. Empowering girls since 1959, Barbie has inspired the limitless potential of every girl by showing them that they can be anything. With an extensive portfolio of dolls and accessories, content, gaming, and lifestyle products, Barbie is the premier fashion doll for children around the world. American Girl is best known for imparting valuable life lessons through its inspiring dolls and books, featuring diverse characters from past and present. Its products are sold directly to consumers via its catalog, website, and proprietary retail stores.

Infant, Toddler, and Preschool—including brands such as Fisher-Price and Thomas & Friends, Power Wheels, Fireman Sam, and Shimmer and Shine (Nickelodeon). As a leader in play and child development, Fisher-Price’s mission is to provide meaningful solutions for parents and enrich children’s lives from birth to school readiness, helping families get the best possible start. Thomas & Friends is an award-winning preschool train brand franchise that brings meaningful life lessons of friendship and teamwork to kids through content, toys, live events, and other lifestyle categories.

Vehicles—including brands such as Hot Wheels, Matchbox, CARS (Disney Pixar), and Jurassic World (NBCUniversal). In production for over 50 years, Hot Wheels continues to push the limits of performance and design and ignites the challenger spirit of kids, adults, and collectors. From diecast cars, to tracks, playsets, and advanced play products, the Hot Wheels portfolio has broad appeal that engages and excites kids. 

Action Figures, Building Sets, and Games—including brands such as MEGA, UNO, Toy Story (Disney Pixar), Jurassic World (NBCUniversal), and WWE.  From big blocks to small bricks, first builders to advanced collectors, MEGA creates products that spark purposeful play and encourage kids and adults to "build beyond." America's number one game, UNO is the classic matching card game that is easy to pick up and fast fun for everyone.

Mattel, Inc. was incorporated in California in 1948 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1968. Its executive offices are located at 333 Continental Blvd., El Segundo, California 90245-5012, telephone number (310) 252-2000.

Business Segments

Mattel's operating segments are: (i) North America, which consists of the U.S. and Canada; (ii) International; and (iii) American Girl. The North America and International segments sell products across categories, although some products are developed and adapted for particular international markets.

For additional information on Mattel’s worldwide revenues by brand category, see Part II, Item 7 "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations" and Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information."

4

North America Segment

The North America segment markets and sells toys in the U.S. and Canada across categories.

In the Dolls category, Mattel will seek to continue the strong momentum started by the 60th anniversary of Barbie in 2020. In spring 2020, Barbie will celebrate wellness with a new product launch and a 360-degree program centered around meditation and mindfulness including consumer products, digital activations, and collaborations. Barbie will also kick off its inaugural You Can Be Anything Festival, benefiting the Dream Gap Project Fund with key talent timed to International Women’s Day. Barbie will continue a full year of the new Color Reveal segment, a new and innovative play pattern. In summer and fall 2020, Barbie will launch its sports campaign tied to the Olympics and a new We Are Barbie campaign focusing on the message of diversity and inclusivity. Barbie products will also continue to be supported by new animated content, including new episodes of Barbie: Dreamhouse Adventures, a new Barbie Princess Adventures Special.

Building off of its content distribution, Mattel will continue to support Polly Pocket and Enchantimals by streaming animated content on key broadcast platforms globally. Both brands will have a strong new product line and will continue to be amplified by new content in 2020. 

In 2020, Fisher-Price will celebrate its 90th birthday. Further development on the new brand platform launched in the fall of 2019 will look to turn brand awareness into brand love by surprising and delighting consumers as a trusted brand for infants and children up to five years old.

Thomas & Friends will celebrate a milestone 75th anniversary in 2020. Thomas has delighted fans for generations through books and television, and in 2020, Mattel is introducing more storytelling touchpoints than ever before for the next generation of fans. New series on YouTube, new audio stories, new music, and exciting partnerships in key markets around the world will celebrate Thomas & Friends throughout the year.

In the Vehicles category, industry leader Hot Wheels will continue its strong momentum as a multigenerational franchise with globally expanded Hot Wheels Legends and Hot Wheels Monster Trucks Live tours, and always-on premium content on YouTube. The core product offering will be refreshed with the new Track Builder Unlimited line and exciting partnerships with some of the best automotive and entertainment properties, including Fast & Furious 9 from NBCUniversal. Mattel will also continue to partner with Disney Pixar for CARS, with increased franchise support. Additionally, Matchbox is poised to have a great year, enhanced by its partnership with Viacom as global toy partner for Top Gun: Maverick.

Mattel’s Action Figures category will continue to collaborate with key licensor partners, such as Disney, NBCUniversal, WWE, and Microsoft, to bring innovative products to the global marketplace. Key 2020 product lines based on entertainment franchises include Minions, with a theatrical release in July 2020, support for the launch of the Minecraft Earth video game, as well as continued franchise support of NBCUniversal’s Jurassic World and Disney Pixar's Toy Story 4 and other Disney Pixar properties.

MEGA is the global challenger brand in the building sets category, providing innovative building play experiences, authentic details and accessible value for fans and families. In 2020, MEGA will invite consumers of all ages to build more together, promoting inclusivity within the industry and the world. Parents of preschoolers can discover the new MEGA Bloks Peek-a-Bloks segment, featuring easy building playsets and collectible peek-a-boo surprise characters. The MEGA Construx portfolio will introduce open-ended StoryBuilders sets to transition builders ages four to six to big kid building. Fans of partner franchises can continue to build and collect with Pokemon, Game of Thrones, and Halo.

In the Games category in 2020, Mattel’s flagship card game UNO will be introducing new innovative ways to play as well as continuing to introduce a variety of pop culture and entertainment themed decks. With one of the largest branded portfolios in the world, we will continue to maximize evergreen brands like Pictionary, Rock 'Em Sock 'Em Robots, and Magic 8 Ball and bring new innovative concepts to market.

International Segment

Products marketed by the International segment are generally the same as those developed and marketed by the North America segment, although some are developed or adapted for particular international markets. Mattel’s products are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence. No individual country within the International segment exceeded 7% of worldwide consolidated gross sales during 2019.

5

American Girl Segment

The American Girl segment is a direct marketer, children’s publisher, and retailer dedicated to its mission to help build girls of strong character. American Girl is best known for its line of historical and contemporary characters that feature 18" dolls, books, and accessories that inspire girls with important lessons from America’s past to today. For girls who are ready to tell their own stories, Truly Me allows girls to express what’s on their minds and in their hearts by choosing a doll—or creating their own—from more than 1.3 million possibilities. Bitty Baby introduces girls to nurturing play until they are ready for WellieWishers, a sweet group of girls who teach about empathy and being a good friend. American Girl also publishes best-selling fiction and non-fiction titles that help girls navigate the changes and challenges of growing up. The American Girl segment sells products directly to consumers via its catalog, website, in its proprietary retail stores in the U.S., at select retailers nationwide, and at specialty boutiques and franchise stores in Canada, Dubai, and Bahrain. The American Girl stores in Dubai and Bahrain are scheduled to close in early 2020.

In January 2020, American Girl introduced its newest Girl of the Year character, Joss Kendrick, a fierce athlete born with hearing loss and a passion for surfing and competitive cheer. Throughout 2020, American Girl will focus on its mission to build girls of strong character through immersive storytelling; differentiated, premium experiences; and our commitment to service and quality. 

Manufacturing and Materials

Mattel manufactures toy products for all segments in both company-owned facilities and through third-party manufacturers. Products are also purchased from unrelated entities that design, develop, and manufacture those products. To provide greater flexibility in the manufacture and delivery of its products, and as part of a continuing effort to reduce manufacturing costs, Mattel has concentrated production of most of its core products in company-owned facilities and generally uses third-party manufacturers for the production of non-core products.

Mattel’s principal manufacturing facilities are located in Canada, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, and Thailand. In conjunction with the Capital Light program, Mattel discontinued production in 2019 at certain plants located in China, Indonesia, and Mexico. In addition to the discontinued production at the three plants, Mattel announced that it will discontinue production in 2020 at its plant located in Canada. To help avoid disruption of its product supply due to political instability, civil unrest, economic instability, changes in government policies or regulations, natural and manmade disasters, and other risks, Mattel produces its products in multiple facilities across multiple countries. Mattel believes that the existing production capacity at its own and its third-party manufacturers’ facilities is sufficient to handle expected volume in the foreseeable future. Mattel continues to evaluate its manufacturing footprint in connection with its Capital Light program.

Mattel bases its production schedules for toy products on customer orders and forecasts, taking into account historical trends, results of market research, and current market information. Actual shipments of products ordered and order cancellation rates are affected by consumer acceptance of product lines, strength of competing products, marketing strategies of retailers, changes in buying patterns of both retailers and consumers, and overall economic conditions. Unexpected changes in these factors could result in a lack of product availability or excess inventory in a particular product line. 

The majority of Mattel’s raw materials are available from numerous suppliers but may be subject to fluctuations in price. See Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors."

Competition and Industry Background

Mattel is a worldwide leader in the manufacture, marketing, and sale of toys, games, and other products related to play, learning, and development. Competition in the toy industry is based primarily on quality, play value, brands, and price. Mattel offers a diverse range of products for children of all ages and families that include, among others, toys for infants and preschoolers, dolls, vehicles, action figures, construction toys, youth electronics, hand-held and other games, puzzles, educational toys, technology-related products, media-driven products, and fashion-related toys. The North America segment competes with several large toy companies, including Funko, Hasbro, JAKKS Pacific, Jazwares, Just Play Products, LEGO, MGA Entertainment, Spin Master, VTech, many smaller toy companies, and manufacturers of video games and consumer electronics. The International segment competes with global toy companies including Funko, Hasbro, JAKKS Pacific, Just Play Products, LEGO, MGA Entertainment, Playmobil, Ravensburger, Simba, Spin Master, VTech, other national and regional toy companies, and manufacturers of video games and consumer electronics. Foreign regions may include competitors that are strong in a particular toy line or geographical area but do not compete with Mattel or other international toy companies worldwide. The American Girl segment competes with companies that manufacture dolls and accessories and with children’s book publishers and retailers. 

6

Competition among the above companies is intensifying due to trends towards shorter life cycles for individual toy products and an increasing use of more sophisticated technology among consumers. As a result of children outgrowing toys at younger ages, Mattel competes with companies that sell non-toy products, such as electronic consumer products, video games, as well as content and other entertainment companies. Competition continues to be heavily influenced by the fact that a small number of retailers account for a large portion of all toy sales, allocate the shelf space from which toys are viewed, and have direct contact with parents and children through in-store and online purchases. Such retailers can and do promote their own private-label toys, facilitate the sale of competitors’ toys, showcase toys online based on proprietary algorithms, and allocate shelf space to one type of toy over another. Online distributors are able to promote a wide variety of toys and represent a wide variety of toy manufacturers.

Seasonality

Mattel’s business is highly seasonal, with consumers making a large percentage of all toy purchases during the traditional holiday season. A significant portion of Mattel’s customers’ purchasing occurs in the third and fourth quarters of Mattel’s fiscal year in anticipation of holiday buying. These seasonal purchasing patterns and requisite production lead times create risk to Mattel’s business associated with the underproduction of popular toys and the overproduction of less popular toys that do not match consumer demand. Retailers have also been attempting to manage their inventories more tightly in recent years, requiring Mattel to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. These factors increase the risk that Mattel may not be able to meet demand for certain products at peak demand times or that Mattel’s own inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed. Additionally, as retailers manage their inventories, Mattel experiences cyclical ordering patterns for products and product lines that may cause its sales to vary significantly from period to period.

In anticipation of retail sales in the traditional holiday season, Mattel significantly increases its production in advance of the peak selling period, resulting in a corresponding build-up of inventory levels in the first three quarters of its fiscal year. Seasonal shipping patterns result in significant peaks in the third and fourth quarters in the respective levels of inventories and accounts receivable, which result in seasonal working capital financing requirements. See Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Seasonal Financing and Debt."

Advertising and Marketing

Mattel supports its product lines with extensive advertising and consumer promotions. Advertising takes place at varying levels throughout the year and peaks during the traditional holiday season. Advertising includes television and radio commercials, social media, and magazine, newspaper, and internet advertisements. Promotions include in-store displays, sweepstakes, merchandising materials, major events focusing on products, and tie-ins with various consumer products companies.

During 2019, 2018, and 2017, Mattel incurred advertising and promotion expenses of $551.5 million (12.2% of net sales), $524.3 million (11.6% of net sales), and $642.3 million (13.2% of net sales), respectively.

Sales

Mattel’s products are sold throughout the world. Products within the North America segment are sold directly to retailers, including discount and free-standing toy stores, chain stores, department stores, other retail outlets, and, to a limited extent, wholesalers. Mattel also operates small retail outlets at certain corporate offices as a service to its employees and as an outlet for its products. Products within the International segment are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence. Mattel also has retail outlets in Latin America and Europe that serve as outlets for its products. American Girl products and its children's publications are sold directly to consumers and select retailers nationwide. Mattel has retail space in Chicago, Illinois; Los Angeles, California; and New York, New York for its American Girl Place stores, and in over 10 other cities across the United States for its American Girl stores, each of which features children’s products from the American Girl segment. Additionally, Mattel sells certain of its products online through websites of one or more of its subsidiaries.

7

During 2019 and 2018, Mattel’s two largest customers (Walmart at $1.01 billion and Target at $0.44 billion during 2019, Walmart at $1.07 billion and Target at $0.45 billion during 2018) accounted for approximately 32% and 34%, respectively, of worldwide consolidated net sales. Within countries in the International segment, there is also a concentration of sales to certain large customers that do not operate in the U.S., none of which exceeded 10% of worldwide consolidated net sales. The customers and the degree of concentration vary depending upon the region or nation. See Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information."

Licenses and Distribution Agreements

Mattel has license agreements with third parties that permit Mattel to utilize the trademark, characters, or inventions of the licensor in products that Mattel sells. A number of these licenses relate to product lines that are significant to Mattel’s business and operations.

Mattel has entered into agreements to license entertainment properties from, among others, Disney Enterprises, Inc. (including Star Wars, Mickey Mouse, Pixar (including CARS and Toy Story) and certain other Disney films and television properties), NBCUniversal (including Fast and Furious and Jurassic World), Viacom International, Inc. relating to its Nickelodeon properties (including Blaze and the Monster Machines, Sunny Day, Shimmer and Shine, and Butterbean's Cafe), Warner Bros. Consumer Products (including Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman, Justice League, and DC Comics Superhero Girls), Microsoft (including Halo and Minecraft), and WWE. 

Mattel's license with Warner Bros. Consumer Products for the global rights to produce and sell action figures based on DC Comics characters expires in March 2020 and will not be renewed.

Royalty expense for 2019, 2018, and 2017 was $220.2 million, $224.0 million, and $244.5 million, respectively. See "Commitments" and Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies."

Mattel also licenses a number of its trademarks and other property rights to others for use in connection with the sale of their products. Mattel distributes some third-party finished products that are independently designed and manufactured.

Trademarks, Copyrights, and Patents

Most of Mattel’s products are sold under trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, and some of these products incorporate devices or designs for which patent protection has been, or is being pursued. Trademarks, copyrights, and patents are significant assets of Mattel in that they provide product recognition and acceptance worldwide.

Mattel customarily seeks trademark, copyright, and/or patent protection covering its products, and it owns or has applications pending or registrations for U.S. and foreign trademarks, copyrights, and patents covering many of its products. Although a number of these trademarks, copyrights, and patents relate to product lines that are significant to Mattel’s business and operations, Mattel does not believe it is dependent on a single trademark, copyright, or patent. Mattel believes its rights to these properties are adequately protected, but there can be no assurance that its rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged.

Commitments

In the normal course of business, Mattel enters into contractual arrangements for future purchases of goods and services to ensure availability and timely delivery and to obtain and protect Mattel’s right to create and market certain products. Certain of these commitments routinely contain provisions for guarantees or minimum expenditures during the term of the contracts. Current and future commitments for guaranteed payments reflect Mattel’s focus on expanding its product lines through alliances with businesses in other industries. Additionally, Mattel routinely enters into noncancelable lease agreements for premises and equipment used in the normal course of business.

Agreements to purchase inventory, services, and other items with terms extending through 2022 contain future minimum payments totaling approximately $342 million. Licensing and similar agreements with terms extending through 2024 contain provisions for future guaranteed minimum payments totaling approximately $184 million. Lease commitments with terms extending through 2024 and beyond contain future minimum obligations totaling approximately $450 million. See Part II, Item 7 "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Commitments", Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies" and Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Leases."

8

Backlog

Mattel ships products in accordance with delivery schedules specified by its customers, which usually request delivery within three months. In the toy industry, orders are subject to cancellation or change at any time prior to shipment. Many of Mattel's customers use quick response or just-in-time inventory management practices resulting in fewer advance orders and therefore less backlog of orders. Mattel believes that the amount of backlog orders at any given time may not accurately indicate future sales.

Financial Instruments

Currency exchange rate fluctuations may impact Mattel’s results of operations and cash flows. Mattel seeks to mitigate its exposure to foreign exchange risk by monitoring its foreign currency transaction exposure for the year and partially hedging such exposure using foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to hedge its purchase and sale of inventory and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. These contracts generally have maturity dates of up to 18 months. In addition, Mattel manages its exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations through the selection of currencies used for international borrowings. Mattel does not trade in financial instruments for speculative purposes.

For additional information regarding foreign currency contracts, see Part II, Item 7A "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Derivative Instruments."

Seasonal Financing

See Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Seasonal Financing and Debt."

Government Regulations and Environmental Quality

Mattel’s products sold in the U.S. are subject to the provisions of the Consumer Product Safety Act, as amended by the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, and may also be subject to the requirements of the Flammable Fabrics Act or the Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act and the regulations promulgated pursuant to such statutes. These statutes and the related regulations ban from the market consumer products that fail to comply with applicable product safety laws, regulations, and standards. The Consumer Product Safety Commission may require the recall, repurchase, replacement, or repair of any such banned products or products that otherwise create a substantial risk of injury and may seek penalties for regulatory noncompliance under certain circumstances. Similar laws exist in some U.S. states. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these federal and state laws and regulations.

Mattel’s products sold worldwide are subject to the provisions of similar laws and regulations in many jurisdictions, including the European Union ("EU") and Canada. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations.

Mattel maintains a quality control program to help ensure compliance with applicable product safety requirements. Nonetheless, Mattel has experienced, and may in the future experience, issues in products that result in recalls, withdrawals, or replacements of products. A product recall could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s results of operations and financial condition, depending on the product affected by the recall and the extent of the recall efforts required. A product recall could also negatively affect Mattel’s reputation and the sales of other Mattel products. See Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors."

Mattel’s advertising is subject to the Federal Trade Commission Act, The Children’s Television Act of 1990, the rules and regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, and the Federal Communications Commission, as well as laws of certain countries that regulate advertising and advertising to children. In addition, Mattel’s web-based products and services and other online and digital communications activity are or may be subject to U.S. and foreign privacy-related regulations, including the U.S. Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 and the EU General Data Protection Regulation and related national regulations. Privacy-related laws also exist in some U.S. states, including the recently enacted California Consumer Protection Act. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations.

Mattel’s worldwide operations are subject to the requirements of various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where those operations are located. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with those laws and regulations. Mattel’s operations are from time to time the subject of investigations, conferences, discussions, and negotiations with various federal, state, and local environmental agencies within and outside the U.S. with respect to the discharge or cleanup of hazardous waste. Mattel is not aware of any material cleanup liabilities.

9

Mattel is subject to various other federal, state, local, and international laws and regulations applicable to its business. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations.

Employees

The total number of persons employed by Mattel and its subsidiaries at any one time varies because of the seasonal nature of its manufacturing operations. As of December 31, 2019, Mattel’s total number of employees (excluding temporary and seasonal employees) was approximately 24,000.

Available Information 

Mattel files its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 

Mattel’s internet website address is http://corporate.mattel.com. Mattel makes available on its internet website, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 

Item 1A.Risk Factors.