Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market Risk and Credit Risk

Certain of the Company’s revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets.

Interest Rate Risk and Credit Risk

Interest income generated from the Company’s cash investments as well as invested fiduciary funds will vary with the general level of interest rates.

The Company had the following investments subject to variable interest rates: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Based on the above balances, if short-term interest rates increased or decreased by 10%, or 15 basis points, over the full year, annual interest income, including interest earned on fiduciary funds, would increase or decrease by approximately $8 million.

In addition to interest rate risk, our cash investments and fiduciary fund investments are subject to potential loss of value due to counter-party credit risk. To minimize this risk, the Company and its subsidiaries invest pursuant to a Board approved investment policy. The policy mandates the preservation of principal and liquidity and requires broad diversification with counter-party limits assigned based primarily on credit rating and type of investment. The Company carefully monitors its cash and fiduciary fund investments and will further restrict the portfolio as appropriate to market conditions. The majority of cash and fiduciary fund investments are invested in short-term bank deposits and liquid money market funds.

Foreign Currency Risk

The translated values of revenue and expense from the Company’s international operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. The non-U.S. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 53% of total revenue. We periodically use forward contracts and options to limit foreign currency exchange rate exposure on net income and cash flows for specific, clearly defined transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the Company has significant revenue generated in foreign locations which is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, in most cases both the foreign currency revenue and expenses are in the functional currency of the foreign location. As such, under normal circumstances, the U.S. dollar translation of both the revenues and expenses, as well as the potentially offsetting movements of various currencies against the U.S. dollar, generally tends to mitigate the impact on net operating income of foreign currency risk. However, there have been periods where the impact was not mitigated due to external market factors, and external macroeconomic events, such as the impact of "Brexit" in the United Kingdom, may result in greater foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the future. If foreign exchange rates of major currencies (Euro, Sterling, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar) moved 10% in the same direction against the U.S. dollar compared with the foreign exchange rates in 2019, the Company estimates net operating income would increase or decrease by approximately $53 million. The Company has exposure to approximately 85 foreign currencies overall. In Continental Europe, the largest amount of revenue from renewals for the Risk & Insurance Services segment occurs in the first quarter. 

Equity Price Risk

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted a new accounting standard that requires equity investments with readily determinable market values to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income.

54

The Company holds investments in both public and private companies as well as private equity funds, including investments of approximately $19 million that are valued using readily determinable fair values and approximately $67 million of investments without readily determinable fair values. The Company also has investments of approximately $434 million that are accounted for using the equity method, including the Company's investment in Alexander Forbes. The investments are subject to risk of decline in market value, which, if determined to be other than temporary for assets without readily determinable fair values, could result in realized impairment losses. The Company periodically reviews the carrying value of such investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements.

The Company owns approximately 34% of the common stock of Alexander Forbes, a South African company listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, which it purchased in 2014 for 7.50 South African Rand per share. In the third quarter of 2018, the Company concluded the decline in value of the investment was other than temporary and recorded an impairment charge of $83 million in 2018. As of December 31, 2019, the carrying value of the Company’s investment in Alexander Forbes was approximately $144 million. As of December 31, 2019, the market value of the approximately 443 million shares of Alexander Forbes owned by the Company, based on the December 31, 2019 closing share price of 5.55 South African Rand per share, was approximately $173 million. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the pending sale of the Company's remaining investment in AF.

Other

A number of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings are pending. See Note 16 ("Claims, Lawsuits and Other Contingencies") to the consolidated financial statements included in this report.

55

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data