Item 1A.Risk Factors.

You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to all other information provided to you in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be affected by the factors set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company.

Risks Related to Our Business

We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These and other risks could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Governmental investigations, inquiries, and regulatory actions and lawsuits brought against us by government agencies and private parties with respect to our historical commercialization of opioids could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

As a result of greater public awareness of the public health issue of opioid abuse, there has been increased scrutiny of, and investigation into, the commercial practices of opioid manufacturers by state and federal agencies. We, along with other opioid manufacturers, have been the subject of federal and state government investigations and enforcement actions, focused on the misuse and abuse of opioid medications in the U.S. Similar investigations may be initiated in the future.

In addition, a significant number of lawsuits have been filed against us, other opioid manufacturers, distributors and others in the supply chain by cities, counties, state Attorneys General and private persons seeking to hold us and others accountable for opioid misuse and abuse. As of February 25, 2020, the cases we are aware of include, but are not limited to, approximately 2,496 cases filed by counties, cities, Native American tribes and/or other government-related persons or entities; approximately 253 cases filed by hospitals, health systems, unions, health and welfare funds or other third-party payers; approximately 110 cases filed by individuals; approximately six cases filed by schools and school boards; and 17 cases filed by the Attorneys General for New Mexico, Kentucky, Rhode Island, Georgia, Florida, Alaska, New York, Nevada, South Dakota, New Hampshire, Louisiana, Illinois, Mississippi, West Virginia, and Idaho, with Idaho being the only state Attorney General to file in federal as opposed to state court. As of February 25, 2020, the Mallinckrodt defendants in these cases consist of Mallinckrodt plc and the following subsidiaries of Mallinckrodt plc: Mallinckrodt Enterprises LLC, Mallinckrodt LLC, SpecGx LLC, Mallinckrodt Brand Pharmaceuticals Inc., Mallinckrodt Inc., MNK 2011 Inc. and Mallinckrodt Enterprises Holdings, Inc. However, there can be no assurance that plaintiffs will not assert claims against additional Mallinckrodt plc subsidiaries in the future. The lawsuits assert a variety of claims, including, but not limited to, public nuisance, negligence, civil conspiracy, fraud, violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ("RICO") or similar state laws, violations of state CSA or state False Claims Act, product liability, consumer fraud, unfair or deceptive trade practices, false advertising, insurance fraud, unjust enrichment and other common law and statutory claims arising from defendants' manufacturing, distribution, marketing and promotion of opioids and seek restitution, damages, injunctive and other relief and attorneys' fees and costs. The claims generally are based on alleged misrepresentations and/or omissions in connection with the sale and marketing of prescription opioid medications and/or an alleged failure to take adequate steps to prevent diversion. Other parties may file similar lawsuits against us in the future.

20

As a company that first began processing opioids in the 1890s, we understand the utility of these products and that they are safe and effective when taken as appropriately prescribed. We are deeply committed to diversion control efforts, have sophisticated systems in place to identify suspicious orders and engage in significant due diligence and ongoing monitoring of customers. While we are vigorously defending ourselves in these matters, the nature and scope of these matters is unique and current public perceptions of the public health issue of opioid abuse, together with the manner in which other defendants in those cases resolve opioid-related lawsuits and other actions, may present challenges to favorable resolution of these claims. Accordingly, it is not feasible to predict the ultimate outcome of these investigations, enforcement actions and lawsuits if the Litigation Settlement (as defined below) is not consummated. The allegations against us may negatively affect our business in various ways, including through harm to our reputation. We will continue to incur significant legal costs in defending these matters and, if the Litigation Settlement (as defined below) is not fully implemented or consummated, we could in the future be required to pay significant amounts as a result of fines, penalties, settlements or judgments, potentially in excess of established accruals. We may be unable to obtain or maintain insurance in the future on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities or other losses. Any such potential liabilities or losses could also require us to seek financing, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, when required. Such matters or the resolution thereof, or increase in accruals thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

On February 25, 2020, we announced that we, certain of our subsidiaries operating the Specialty Generics business (the "Specialty Generics Subsidiaries") and certain other affiliates have reached an agreement in principle on the terms of a global settlement that would resolve all opioid-related claims against us, which we refer to herein as the "Litigation Settlement." The Litigation Settlement is subject to certain contingencies and may not go into effect in its current form or at all, as a result of which our business prospects may be adversely impacted. The Litigation Settlement contemplates the filing of voluntary petitions under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code ("Chapter 11") by the Specialty Generics Subsidiaries and the establishment of a trust for the benefit of plaintiffs holding opioid-related claims against Mallinckrodt (the "Opioid Claimant Trust"). Any bankruptcy of the Specialty Generics Subsidiaries (as contemplated by the Litigation Settlement or otherwise) would subject both the Specialty Generics Subsidiaries and us and our other subsidiaries to additional risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business prospects and ability to continue as a going concern, including, but not limited to by causing increased difficulty obtaining and maintaining commercial relationships on competitive terms with customers, suppliers and other counterparts; increased difficulty retaining and motivating key employees, as well as attracting new employees; diversion of management's time and attention to dealing with bankruptcy and restructuring activities rather than focusing exclusively on business operations; incurrence of substantial costs, fees and other expenses associated with bankruptcy proceedings; and loss of ability to maintain or obtain sufficient financing sources for operations or to fund any reorganization plan and meet future obligations. We would in that event also be subject to risks and uncertainties caused by the actions of creditors and other third parties who have interests that may be inconsistent with our plans. Furthermore, depending on developments with respect to the Litigation Settlement and other factors, it may be necessary or advisable for us and/or our subsidiaries other than the Specialty Generics Subsidiaries to seek to restructure our or their obligations in a bankruptcy proceeding. Such a bankruptcy could further exacerbate the foregoing risks.

In addition, legislative, regulatory or industry measures to address the misuse of prescription opioid medications may also affect our business in ways that we are not able to predict. For example, the State of New York enacted the Opioid Stewardship Act (the "OSA"), which went into effect on July 1, 2018 and established an aggregate $100 million annual assessment on sales of certain opioid medications in New York. The OSA was successfully challenged, and on December 19, 2018, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York ruled that the OSA was unconstitutional and enjoined its enforcement. On January 17, 2019, the State of New York appealed this ruling. The litigation is still pending. In April 2019, the State of New York passed its 2020 budget, which amended the OSA so that if the OSA decision is reversed on appeal, the OSA would apply only to the sale or distribution of certain opioids in New York for 2017 and 2018 and, effective July 1, 2019, imposed an excise tax on certain opioids. Furthermore, Rhode Island and Delaware have enacted opioid taxes, Minnesota and Maine have enacted increased licensure and registration fees and other states are considering similar legislation that could require entities to pay an assessment or tax on the sale or distribution of opioid medications in those states and may vary in the assessment or tax amounts and the means of calculation from the OSA. If additional state or local jurisdictions successfully enact such legislation and we are not able to mitigate the impact on our business through operational changes or commercial arrangements, such legislation in the aggregate may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See the risk factor “Extensive laws and regulations govern the industry in which we operate, and any failure to comply with such laws and regulations, including any changes to those laws and regulations may materially adversely affect us.” for more information.

Furthermore, in the current climate, stories regarding prescription drug abuse and the diversion of opioids and other controlled substances are frequently in the media. Unfavorable publicity regarding the use or misuse of opioid drugs, the limitations of abuse-deterrent formulations, the ability of drug abusers to discover previously unknown ways to abuse our products, public inquiries and investigations into prescription drug abuse, litigation, or regulatory activity regarding sales, marketing, distribution or storage of opioids could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and impact on the results of litigation.

Finally, various government entities, including Congress, state legislatures or other policy-making bodies have in the past and may in the future hold hearings, conduct investigations and/or issue reports calling attention to the opioid crisis, and may mention or 

21

criticize the perceived role of manufacturers, including us, in the opioid crisis. Similarly, press organizations have and likely will continue to report on these issues, and such reporting may result in adverse publicity for us, resulting in reputational harm.

The Litigation Settlement is subject to certain contingencies and may not go into effect in its current form or at all, as a result of which our business prospects may be adversely impacted.

The Litigation Settlement into which we have entered is neither final nor binding and there is no assurance that the necessary parties will agree to definitive documentation, that the contingencies to any agreement will be fulfilled or that any potential settlement agreement entered into by us will be on terms as favorable as the Litigation Settlement. In particular, the Litigation Settlement is subject to a number of conditions, many of which may not be satisfied. Among other things, we and the other parties to the Litigation Settlement do not intend to proceed with its implementation absent supermajority support and participation amongst the plaintiffs in the opioid cases, and there is no assurance that such support and participation will be obtained. As of February 25, 2020, our discussions regarding the Litigation Settlement have principally been with representatives of governmental entities that are plaintiffs in the opioid cases, rather than private plaintiffs such as hospitals and insurers. Furthermore, the Litigation Settlement is intended to be implemented through a filing by the Specialty Generics Subsidiaries of a pre-arranged bankruptcy case under Chapter 11, which will require confirmation of a plan of reorganization by a U.S. Bankruptcy Court. Confirmation of such a plan is uncertain and could be denied. Furthermore, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions to the Litigation Settlement, the consummation of the Litigation Settlement would become effective upon the emergence of the Specialty Generics Subsidiaries from Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the timing of which emergence is uncertain. The settlement process may use a significant portion of our resources and divert management’s attention from our day-to-day operations, all of which could harm our business. Furthermore, the Litigation Settlement may not be implemented or consummated. In such circumstances, we would be subject to continued litigation with certain plaintiffs with opioid-related claims, including an expected New York state trial date commencing in March 2020, while the outcome of proceedings with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS") with respect to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS") reimbursement rates may remain uncertain. If the Litigation Settlement is not fully implemented or consummated, we or our subsidiaries may become subject to some or all of the liabilities that would have otherwise been settled, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The failure of the Litigation Settlement may also lead to Mallinckrodt plc's subsequent bankruptcy, which would subject us to additional risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business prospects, as further described in the risk factor “Governmental investigations, inquiries, and regulatory actions and lawsuits brought against us by government agencies and private parties with respect to our historical commercialization of opioids could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.”

The healthcare industry has been under increasing scrutiny from governments, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies related to sales, marketing and pricing practices, and changes to, or non-compliance with, relevant policies, laws, regulations or government guidance may result in actions that could adversely affect our business.

In the U.S. over the past several years, a significant number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been subject to inquiries and investigations by various federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial and administrative entities in connection with the promotion of products for unapproved uses and other sales, marketing and pricing practices, including the DOJ and various other agencies including the OIG within the HHS, the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC") and various state Attorneys General offices. These investigations have alleged violations of various federal and state laws and regulations, including claims asserting antitrust violations, violations of the FFDCA, the False Claims Act, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, anti-kickback laws, data and patient privacy laws, export and import laws, consumer protection laws and other alleged violations in connection with the promotion of products for unapproved uses, pricing and Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement. The DOJ and the SEC have also increased their focus on the enforcement of the FCPA, particularly as it relates to the conduct of pharmaceutical companies.

Many of these investigations originate as "qui tam" actions under the False Claims Act. Under the False Claims Act, any individual can bring a claim on behalf of the government alleging that a person or entity has presented a false claim, or caused a false claim to be submitted, to the government for payment. The person bringing a “qui tam” suit is entitled to a share of any recovery or settlement. Qui tam suits, also commonly referred to as “whistleblower suits,” are often brought by current or former employees. In a qui tam suit, the government must decide whether to intervene and prosecute the case. If the government declines to intervene and prosecute the case, the individual may pursue the case alone. If the FDA or any other governmental agency initiates an enforcement action against us or if we are the subject of a qui tam suit and it is determined that we violated prohibitions relating to the promotion of products for unapproved uses in connection with past or future activities, we could be subject to substantial civil or criminal fines or damage awards and other sanctions such as the possible exclusion from federal healthcare programs including Medicare and Medicaid, consent decrees and corporate integrity agreements pursuant to which our activities would be subject to ongoing scrutiny and monitoring to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Any such fines, awards or other sanctions could have an adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

22

Specific to our business, in September 2012, prior to our acquisition of Questcor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Questcor") in August 2014, a subpoena was received from the U.S. Attorney's Office ("USAO") for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, requesting documents pertaining to an investigation of its promotional practices. On or about March 8, 2019, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania unsealed two qui tam actions involving the allegations under investigation by the USAO for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The DOJ intervened in both actions, which have since been consolidated. In September 2019, we executed a settlement agreement to resolve the portion of the investigation and the litigation involving promotional practices for $15.4 million. 

In addition, there has recently been enhanced scrutiny of company-sponsored patient assistance programs, including insurance premium and co-pay assistance programs and donations to third-party charities that provide such assistance. If we are deemed to have failed to comply with relevant laws, regulations or government guidance in any of these areas, we could be subject to criminal and civil sanctions, including significant fines, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, actions against executives overseeing our business, and burdensome remediation measures. As discussed above, the USAO for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania is investigating this issue and the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania has unsealed two qui tam actions involving the allegations that are the subject of this investigation. In addition, in December 2016, we received a subpoena from the USAO for the District of Massachusetts requesting documents related to our support of 501(c)(3) organizations that provide financial assistance to patients and documents concerning our provision of financial assistance to patients prescribed Acthar Gel. Other companies have disclosed similar inquiries. We are cooperating with this inquiry. It is possible that any actions taken by the DOJ or one of the USAOs as a result of this inquiry or any future action taken by federal or local governments, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies on this subject could result in civil penalties or injunctive relief, negative publicity or other negative actions that could harm our reputation, and could reduce demand for our products and/or reduce coverage of our products, including by federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and state health care, which would negatively impact sales of our products. If any or all of these events occur, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We may experience pricing pressure on certain of our products due to legal changes or changes in insurers' reimbursement practices resulting from increased public scrutiny of healthcare and pharmaceutical costs, which could reduce our future revenue and profitability.

Public and governmental scrutiny of the cost of healthcare generally and pharmaceuticals in particular, especially in connection with price increases of certain products, could affect our ability to maintain or increase the prices of one or more of our products, which could negatively impact our future revenue and profitability. Certain press reports and other commentary have criticized the substantial increases in the price of Acthar Gel that occurred prior to our acquisition of the product. Acthar Gel represented 30.1% of our net sales for fiscal 2019. In addition, U.S. federal prosecutors have issued subpoenas to certain pharmaceutical companies seeking information about their drug pricing practices, among other issues, and members of the U.S. Congress have sought information from certain pharmaceutical companies relating to drug price increases. We cannot predict whether any particular legislative or regulatory changes or changes in insurers' reimbursement practices may result from any such public scrutiny, what the nature of any such changes might be or what impact they may have on us. If legislative or regulatory action were taken or insurers changed their reimbursement practices to limit our ability to maintain or increase the prices of our products, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected.

Sales of our products are affected by, and we may be negatively impacted by any changes to, the reimbursement practices of governmental health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third-party payers. In addition, reimbursement criteria or policies and the use of tender systems outside the U.S. could reduce prices for our products or reduce our market opportunities.

Sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are reimbursed by governmental health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third-party payers. The ability of patients to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from these third-party payers affects the selection of products they purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of state and federal proposals that limit the amount that third-party payers may pay to reimburse the cost of drugs, for example with respect to Acthar Gel. We believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. has and will continue to put pressure on the usage and reimbursement of Acthar Gel. Our ability to commercialize our products depends, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of these products is available from government healthcare programs, such as Medicaid and Medicare, private health insurers and others. We cannot be certain that, over time, third-party reimbursements for our products will be adequate for us to maintain price levels sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment.

Reimbursement of highly-specialized products, such as Acthar Gel, is typically reviewed and approved or denied on a patient-by-patient, case-by-case basis, after careful review of details regarding a patient's health and treatment history that is provided to the 

23

insurance carriers through a prior authorization submission, and appeal submission, if applicable. During this case-by-case review, the reviewer may refer to coverage guidelines issued by that carrier. These coverage guidelines are subject to on-going review by insurance carriers. Because of the large number of carriers, there are a large number of guideline updates issued each year.

Furthermore, demand for new products may be limited unless we obtain reimbursement approval from governmental and private third-party payers prior to introduction. Reimbursement criteria, which vary by country, are becoming increasingly stringent and require management expertise and significant attention to obtain and maintain qualification for reimbursement.

In addition, a number of markets in which we operate have implemented or may implement tender systems in an effort to lower prices. Under such tender systems, manufacturers submit bids which establish prices for products. The company that wins the tender receives preferential reimbursement for a period of time. Accordingly, the tender system often results in companies underbidding one another by proposing low pricing in order to win the tender. Certain other countries may consider implementation of a tender system. Even if a tender system is ultimately not implemented, the anticipation of such could result in price reductions. Failing to win tenders, or the implementation of similar systems in other markets leading to price declines, could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation or changes in third-party coverage and reimbursement policies may be enacted or issued in the future or what effect such legislation, regulation and policy changes would have on our business. In May 2019, CMS issued a decision requiring that we revert to the base date average manufacturer price ("AMP") used to calculate Medicaid drug rebates for Acthar Gel. We subsequently filed suit in federal district court against the HHS and CMS seeking to hold unlawful and set aside this decision. We plan to vigorously defend our position. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to set aside CMS's decision, Medicaid net sales of Acthar Gel could be substantially eliminated and our efforts to continue building on our investment in non-sales and marketing activities to modernize Acthar Gel could be significantly undermined.

Our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicare and Medicaid rebate programs, and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs, are complex. Any determination of failure to comply with these obligations or those relating to healthcare fraud and abuse laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.

The regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement programs, and rebates and other governmental programs, are complex. Because our processes for these calculations and the judgments used in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these accruals may have a higher inherent risk for material changes in estimates. In addition, they are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in material adjustments to amounts previously paid. See “Sales of our products are affected by, and we may be negatively impacted by any changes to, the reimbursement practices of governmental health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third-party payers. In addition, reimbursement criteria or policies and the use of tender systems outside the U.S. could reduce prices for our products or reduce our market opportunities.”

Any governmental agencies that have commenced, or may commence, an investigation of us relating to the sales, marketing, pricing, quality or manufacturing of pharmaceutical products could seek to impose, based on a claim of violation of fraud and false claims laws or otherwise, civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties and possible exclusion from federal healthcare programs including Medicare and Medicaid. Some of the applicable laws may impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud. Furthermore, should there be ambiguity with regard to how to properly calculate and report payments, and even in the absence of any such ambiguity, a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position we have taken, and may impose civil and/or criminal sanctions. For example, in May 2019, CMS issued a decision requiring that we revert to the base date AMP used to calculate Medicaid drug rebates for Acthar Gel and from time to time, state attorneys general have brought cases against us that allege generally that we and numerous other pharmaceutical companies reported false pricing information in connection with certain drugs that are reimbursable under Medicaid, resulting in overpayment by state Medicaid programs for those drugs, and generally seek monetary damages and attorneys' fees. Any such penalties or sanctions that we might become subject to in this or other actions could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Cost-containment efforts of our customers, purchasing groups, third-party payers and governmental organizations could materially adversely affect our business.

In an effort to reduce cost, many existing and potential customers for our products within the U.S. have become members of GPOs and integrated delivery networks ("IDNs"). GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with healthcare product manufacturers and distributors and offer the negotiated prices to affiliated hospitals and other members. GPOs and IDNs typically award contracts on a category-by-category basis through a competitive bidding process. Bids are generally solicited from multiple manufacturers with the intention of driving down pricing. Due to the highly competitive nature of the GPO and IDN contracting processes, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain contracts with major GPOs and IDNs across our product portfolio. Furthermore, the increasing leverage of organized buying groups may reduce market prices for our products, thereby 

24

reducing our profitability. While having a contract with a GPO or IDN for a given product can facilitate sales to members of that GPO or IDN, having a contract is no assurance that sales volume of those products will be maintained. GPOs and IDNs increasingly are awarding contracts to multiple suppliers for the same product category. Even when we are the sole contracted supplier of a GPO or IDN for a certain product, members of the GPO or IDN generally are free to purchase from other suppliers. Furthermore, GPO and IDN contracts typically are terminable without cause upon 60 to 90 days prior notice. Accordingly, our net sales and results of operations may be negatively affected by the loss of a contract with a GPO or IDN. In addition, although we have contracts with many major GPOs and IDNs, the members of such groups may choose to purchase from our competitors, which could result in a decline in our net sales. Distributors of our products are also forming strategic alliances and negotiating terms of sale more aggressively in an effort to increase their profitability. Failure to negotiate distribution arrangements having advantageous pricing and other terms of sale could cause us to lose market share to our competitors or result in lower pricing on volume we retain, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Outside the U.S., we have experienced pricing pressure due to the concentration of purchasing power in centralized governmental healthcare authorities and increased efforts by such authorities to lower healthcare costs. We frequently are required to engage in competitive bidding for the sale of our products to governmental purchasing agents. Our failure to maintain volume and pricing with historical or anticipated levels could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Extensive laws and regulations govern the industry in which we operate and any failure to comply with such laws and regulations, including any changes to those laws and regulations may materially adversely affect us.

The development, manufacture, marketing, sale, promotion, and distribution of our products are subject to comprehensive government regulations that govern and influence the development, testing, manufacturing, processing, packaging, holding, record keeping, safety, efficacy, approval, advertising, promotion, sale, distribution and import/export of our products. 

Under these laws and regulations, we are subject to periodic inspection of our facilities, procedures and operations and/or the testing of our products by the FDA, the DEA and similar authorities within and outside the U.S., which conduct periodic inspections to confirm that we are in compliance with all applicable requirements. We are also required to track and report adverse events and product quality problems associated with our products to the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with the requirements of FDA or other regulatory authorities, including a failed inspection or a failure in our adverse event reporting system, or any other unexpected or serious health or safety concerns associated with our products, including our opioid pain products and Acthar Gel, could result in adverse inspection reports, warning letters, product recalls or seizures, product liability claims, labeling changes, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals or licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. Any of these actions could cause a loss of customer confidence in our products, which could adversely affect our sales, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the requirements of regulatory authorities, including interpretative guidance, are subject to change and compliance with additional or changing requirements or interpretative guidance may subject us to further review, result in product delays or otherwise increase our costs, and thus have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Furthermore, the FDA and various foreign regulatory authorities approve drugs and medical devices for the treatment of specific indications, and products may only be promoted or marketed for the indications for which they have been approved. However, in the U.S. the FDA does not attempt to regulate physicians' use of approved products, and physicians are free to prescribe most approved products for purposes outside the indication for which they have been approved. This practice is sometimes referred to as “off-label” use. While physicians are free to prescribe approved products for unapproved uses, it is unlawful for drug and device manufacturers to market or promote a product for an unapproved use. The laws and regulations relating to the promotion of products for unapproved uses are complex and subject to substantial interpretation by the FDA and other governmental agencies. Promotion of a product for unapproved use is prohibited; however, certain activities that we and others in the pharmaceutical industry engage in are permitted by the FDA. We have compliance programs in place, including policies, training and various forms of monitoring, designed to address these risks. Nonetheless, these programs and policies may not always protect us from conduct by individual employees that violate these laws. If the FDA or any other governmental agency initiates an enforcement action against us and it is determined that we violated prohibitions relating to the promotion of products for unapproved uses in connection with past or future activities, we could be subject to substantial civil or criminal fines or damage awards and other sanctions such as consent decrees and corporate integrity agreements pursuant to which our activities would be subject to ongoing scrutiny and monitoring to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Any such fines, awards or other sanctions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

25

We may be unable to successfully develop, commercialize or launch new products or expand commercial opportunities for existing products or adapt to a changing technology and, as a result, our business may suffer.

Our future results of operations will depend, to a significant extent, upon our ability to successfully develop, commercialize and launch new products or expand commercial opportunities for existing products in a timely manner. There are numerous difficulties in developing, commercializing and launching new products or expanding commercial opportunities for existing products, including:

•developing, testing and manufacturing products in compliance with regulatory and quality standards in a timely manner;

•our ability to successfully engage with the FDA or other regulatory authorities as part of the approval process and to receive requisite regulatory approvals for such products in a timely manner, or at all;

•the availability, on commercially reasonable terms, of raw materials, including API and other key ingredients;

•developing, commercializing and launching a new product is time-consuming, costly and subject to numerous factors, including legal actions brought by our competitors, that may delay or prevent the development, commercialization and/or launch of new products;

•unanticipated costs;

•payment of prescription drug user fees to the FDA to defray the costs of review and approval of marketing applications for branded and generic drugs;

•experiencing delays as a result of limited resources at the FDA or other regulatory authorities;

•changing review and approval policies and standards at the FDA or other regulatory authorities; 

•potential delays in the commercialization of generic products by up to 30 months resulting from the listing of patents with the FDA; 

•effective execution of the product launches in a manner that is consistent with expected timelines and anticipated costs; and

•identifying appropriate partners for distribution of our products, including any future over-the-counter commercialization opportunities, and negotiating contractual arrangements in a timely manner with commercially reasonable terms.

As a result of these and other difficulties, products currently in development by us may or may not receive timely regulatory approvals, or approvals at all. This risk is heightened with respect to the development of proprietary branded products due to the uncertainties, higher costs and length of time associated with R&D of such products and the inherent unproven market acceptance of such products. Moreover, the FDA regulates the facilities, processes and procedures used to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products in the U.S. Manufacturing facilities must be registered with the FDA and all products made in such facilities must be manufactured in accordance with cGMP regulations enforced by the FDA. Compliance with cGMP regulations requires the dedication of substantial resources and requires significant expenditures. The FDA periodically inspects both our facilities and procedures to ensure compliance with regulatory standards. The FDA may cause a suspension or withdrawal of product approvals if regulatory standards are not maintained. In the event an approved manufacturing facility for a particular drug is required by the FDA to curtail or cease operations, or otherwise becomes inoperable, obtaining the required FDA authorization to manufacture at the same or a different manufacturing site could result in production delays, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Furthermore, the market perception and reputation of our products are important to our business and the continued acceptance of our products. Any negative press reports or other commentary about our products, whether accurate or not, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operation or cash flows or could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline. 

With respect to generic products for which we are the first developer to have its application accepted for filing by the FDA, and which filing includes a certification that the applicable patent(s) are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed (known as a "Paragraph IV certification"), our ability to obtain and realize the full benefits of 180-days of market exclusivity is dependent upon a number of factors, including, being the first to file, the status of any litigation that might be brought against us as a result of our filing or our not meeting regulatory, manufacturing or quality requirements or standards. If any of our products are not approved timely, or if we are unable to obtain and realize the full benefits of the respective market exclusivity period for our products, or if our products cannot be successfully manufactured or commercialized timely, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any investment we make in developing products will be recouped, even if we are successful in commercializing those products. Finally, once developed and approved, new products may fail to achieve commercial acceptance due to the price of the product, third-party reimbursement of the product and the effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts to support the product.

26

We may not achieve the anticipated benefits of price increases enacted on our pharmaceutical products, which may adversely affect our business.

From time to time, we may initiate price increases on certain of our pharmaceutical products. There is no guarantee that our customers will be receptive to these price increases and continue to purchase the products at historical quantities. In addition, it is unclear how market participants will react to price increases. For example, following pricing actions in our Specialty Generics segment in fiscal 2015, additional competitors entered the marketplace for several of these products and prices subsequently decreased substantially. If customers do not maintain or increase existing sales volumes, we may be unable to replace lost sales with orders from other customers, and it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We face significant competition and may not be able to compete effectively.

The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. Competition takes many forms, such as price reductions on products that are comparable to our own, development of new products with different mechanisms that obviate the need for our treatments, acquisition or in-licensing of new products that may be more cost-effective than or have performance superior to our products, the introduction of generic versions when our proprietary products lose their patent protection or market exclusivity, and the coupling of separate technologies to replicate what our products accomplish through a single system. This competition may limit the effectiveness of any price increases we initiate. Following any price increase by us, competitors may elect to maintain a lower price point that may result in a decline in our sales volume. For further discussion on the competitive nature of our business, as well as the intellectual property rights and market exclusivity that play a key role in our business, refer to Item 1. Business included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, intellectual property rights may be limited or we may be subject to claims that we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others.

We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, proprietary know-how, market exclusivity gained from the regulatory approval process and other intellectual property to support our business strategy, most notably in relation to Acthar Gel, Ofirmev, INOmax, Therakos and Amitiza products. However, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient. If we do not obtain sufficient protection for our intellectual property, or if we are unable to effectively enforce our intellectual property rights, or if there is a change in the way courts and regulators interpret the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our intellectual property, our competitiveness could be impacted, which could adversely affect our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The composition patent for Acthar Gel has expired and we have no patent-based market exclusivity with respect to any indication or condition we might target. We rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect the commercial viability and value of Acthar Gel. We currently obtain such protection, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for proprietary technology in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. The parties may not comply with or may breach these agreements. Furthermore, our trade secrets may otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, competitors.

Certain patents related to the use of therapeutic nitric oxide for treating or preventing bronchoconstriction or reversible pulmonary vasoconstriction expired in 2013. Prior to their expiration, we depended, in part, upon these patents to provide us with exclusive marketing rights for our product for some period of time. Since then, we have obtained additional patents, which expire at various dates through 2036, including patents on methods of identifying patients at risk of serious adverse events when nitric oxide is administered to patients with particular heart conditions. Such methods have been approved by the FDA for inclusion in the Warnings and Precautions sections of the INOmax label. Other patents are on inhaled nitric oxide gas delivery systems as well as methods of using such systems, and on use of nitric oxide gas sensors. The Paragraph IV patent litigation trial against Praxair Distribution, Inc. and Praxair, Inc. (collectively "Praxair") to prevent the marketing of its potential infringing nitric oxide drug product delivery system prior to the expiration of the patents covering INOmax was held in March 2017 and a decision was rendered September 5, 2017 that ruled five patents invalid and six patents not infringed. We appealed the decision to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which upheld the lower court's decision on August 27, 2019. We filed a petition for en banc review at the Federal Circuit on September 26, 2019, which the Federal Circuit denied on November 19, 2019. While Praxair received FDA approval of their ANDA for their Noxivent nitric oxide and clearance of their 510(k) for their NOxBOXi device on October 2, 2018, the Noxivent product received an AA-rating and the Noxivent label states that Noxivent must be delivered using the NOxBOXi device. The Court of Appeals' decision with respect to the Praxair litigation ultimately could result in the launch of a competitive nitric oxide product before the expiration of the last of the patents listed in the FDA Orange Book, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully maximize the value of INOmax and have an adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

27

The active ingredient in Ofirmev is acetaminophen. Patent protection is not available for the acetaminophen molecule itself in the territories licensed to us, which include the U.S. and Canada. As a result, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same active ingredient as Ofirmev so long as the competitors do not infringe any process or formulation patents that we have in-licensed from Bristol Myers Squibb ("BMS") and its licensor, New Pharmatop LLC ("Pharmatop") and any method-of-use patents that we subsequently obtained. The latest expiration date of the in-licensed patents is 2021 whereas the latest expiration date of the subsequently obtained Company-owned patents is 2032. Settlement agreements have been reached in association with certain challenges to the in-licensed patents, which allow for generic competition to Ofirmev in December 2020, or earlier under certain circumstances.

Our Therakos products focus on extracorporeal photopheresis, which is an autologous immune cell therapy that is indicated in the U.S. for skin manifestations of CTCL and is available for several additional indications in markets outside the U.S. In the ECP process, blood is drawn from the patient, separating white blood cells from plasma and red blood cells (which are immediately returned to the patient). The separated white blood cells are treated with a UVA light activated drug, UVADEX, followed by UVA radiation in the photopheresis instrument, prior to being returned to the patient. Patents related to the methoxsalen composition have expired. Therakos historically manufactured two photopheresis systems, the CELLEX® Photopheresis System (“CELLEX”), which is the only FDA-approved closed ECP system, and the UVAR XTS® Photopheresis System (“UVAR XTS”). While we no longer manufacture the UVAR XTS system, disposable, sterile kits are still supplied to customers for each of the systems. The kits are single use and discarded after a treatment. Certain key patents related to the UVAR XTS system, disposable kit and overall photopheresis method expire in 2020. Key patents related to the CELLEX system, disposable kit and overall photopheresis method expire in 2023. We continue to pursue additional patentable enhancements to the Therakos ECP system. Patent applications were filed in 2016 relating to improvements to the CELLEX system, disposable kit and overall photopheresis method, that, if approved, may offer patent protection through approximately 2036.

Our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents, or the patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors. Existing patents may be found to be invalid or insufficiently broad to preclude our competitors from using methods or making or selling products similar or identical to those covered by our patents and patent applications. Regulatory agencies may refuse to grant us the market exclusivity that we were anticipating, or may unexpectedly grant market exclusivity rights to other parties. In addition, our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property rights is limited by the unique laws of each country. In some countries it may be particularly difficult to adequately obtain or enforce intellectual property rights, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share in such countries by utilizing technologies and product features that are similar or identical to those developed or licensed by us. Competitors also may harm our sales by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our patents, including by coupling separate technologies to replicate what our products accomplish through a single system. Competitors may diminish the value of our trade secrets by reverse engineering or by independent invention. Additionally, current or former employees may improperly disclose such trade secrets to competitors or other third parties. We may not become aware of any such improper disclosure, and, in the event we do become aware, we may not have an adequate remedy available to us.

We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation, and we may from time to time be a party to such litigation.

The pursuit of or defense against patent infringement is costly and time-consuming and we may not know the outcomes of such litigation for protracted periods of time. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights. In addition, patent litigation can result in significant damage awards, including the possibility of treble damages and injunctions. Additionally, we could be forced to stop manufacturing and selling certain products, or we may need to enter into license agreements that require us to make significant royalty or up-front payments in order to continue selling the affected products. Given the nature of our industry, we are likely to face additional claims of patent infringement in the future. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Clinical trials demonstrating the efficacy for Acthar Gel are limited. The absence of such clinical trial data could cause physicians not to prescribe Acthar Gel, or payers not to reimburse the drug, which could negatively impact our business.

Our net sales of Acthar Gel, which have and are expected to comprise a significant portion of our overall product portfolio, could be negatively impacted by the level of clinical data available on the product. Acthar Gel was originally approved by the FDA in 1952, prior to the enactment of the 1962 Kefauver Harris Amendment, or the “Drug Efficacy Amendment,” to the FFDCA. This amendment introduced the requirement that drug manufacturers provide proof of the effectiveness (in addition to the previously required proof of safety) of their drugs in order to obtain FDA approval. As such, the FDA's original approval in 1952 was based on safety data as clinical trials evaluating efficacy were not then required. In the 1970s, the FDA reviewed the safety and efficacy of Acthar Gel during its approval of Acthar Gel for the treatment of acute exacerbations in multiple sclerosis and evaluated all other previous indications on the label through the Drug Efficacy Study Implementation (“DESI”) process. In this process, the medical and scientific merits of the label and each indication on the label were evaluated based on publications, information from sponsors, and the judgment of the FDA. 

28

The label obtained after the DESI review and the addition of the multiple sclerosis indication is the Acthar Gel label that was used until the changes in 2010.

In 2010, in connection with its review of a supplemental NDA for use of Acthar Gel in treatment of IS, the FDA again reviewed evidence of safety and efficacy of Acthar Gel, and added the IS indication to the label of approved indications while maintaining approval of Acthar Gel for treatment of acute exacerbations in multiple sclerosis and 17 other indications. In conjunction with its decision to retain these 19 indications on a modernized Acthar Gel label, the FDA eliminated approximately 30 other indications from the label. The FDA review included a medical and scientific review of Acthar Gel and each indication and an evaluation of available clinical and non-clinical literature as of the date of the review. The FDA did not require additional clinical trials for Acthar Gel.

Accordingly, evidence of efficacy is largely based on physician's clinical experience with Acthar Gel and does not include clinical trials except for the MS and IS indications. We have initiated Phase 4 clinical trials to supplement the non-clinical evidence supporting the use of Acthar Gel in the treatment of the on-label indications of MS, RA, FSGS, symptomatic sarcoidosis, uveitis and systemic lupus erythematosus and have reported positive results from the open-label part of the Phase 4 clinical trials. The completion of such ongoing or future clinical trials to provide further evidence on the efficacy of Acthar Gel in the treatment of its approved indications could take several years to complete and will require the expenditure of significant time and financial and management resources. Such clinical trials may not result in data that supports the use of Acthar Gel to treat any of its approved indications. In addition, a clinical trial to evaluate the use of Acthar Gel to treat indications not on the current Acthar Gel label may not provide a basis to pursue adding such indications to the current Acthar Gel label. Furthermore, even if prescribed by a physician, third-party payers may implement restrictions on reimbursement of Acthar Gel due, in part, to the limited clinical data of efficacy, which may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Clinical studies required for our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. If any such studies are delayed or yield unfavorable results, regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products may be delayed or become unobtainable.

We must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. For example, INOmax is approved for sale in the U.S. only for the treatment of HRF associated with pulmonary hypertension in term and near-term infants, and the Therakos systems are approved for sale in the U.S. only for the palliative treatment of the skin manifestations of CTCL in persons who have not been responsive to other forms of treatment. In order to market these products in the U.S. for any other indications, we will need to conduct appropriate clinical trials, obtain positive results from those trials, and obtain regulatory approval for such proposed indications. Conducting such studies is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process and obtaining regulatory approval is uncertain. Even well conducted studies of effective drugs will sometimes appear to be negative in either safety or efficacy results. The regulatory review and approval process to obtain marketing approval for a new indication can take many years, often requires multiple clinical trials and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. This process can vary substantially based on the type, complexity, novelty and indication of the product candidate involved. Success in early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results.

These tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate (or prior or concurrent exposure to other products or product candidates), difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in a clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors, contractors, consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan, protocol, or applicable regulations related to GLPs or GCPs. A clinical trial may fail because it did not include and retain a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. A clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. The FDA and other regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that any data submitted is insufficient for approval and require additional studies or clinical trials. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of product candidate or a new indication for a product candidate.

We will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new studies, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon that drug development program. The failure of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our clinical candidates for the desired indication(s) would preclude the successful development of those candidates for such indication(s), which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

29

We may incur product liability losses and other litigation liability.

We are or may be involved in various legal proceedings and certain government inquiries and investigations, including with respect to, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability, personal injury, antitrust matters, securities class action lawsuits, breach of contract, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement claims, opioid related matters, promotional practices and compliance with laws relating to the manufacture and sale of controlled substances. Such proceedings, inquiries and investigations may involve claims for, or the possibility of, fines and penalties involving substantial amounts of money or other relief, including but not limited to civil or criminal fines and penalties, changes in business practices and exclusion from participation in various government healthcare-related programs. Such litigation and related matters are described in Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of these legal proceedings, inquiries or investigations were to result in an adverse outcome, the impact could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

With respect to product liability and clinical trial risks, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to liability claims and lawsuits, including potential class actions, alleging that our marketed products or products in development have caused, or could cause, serious adverse events or other injury. Any such claim brought against us, with or without merit, could be costly to defend and could result in an increase in our insurance premiums. We retain liability for $10.0 million per claim of the first $50.0 million of a loss in our primary liability policies and purchase an additional $120.0 million using a combination of umbrella/excess liability policies with respect to any such claims. We believe this coverage level is adequate to address our current risk exposure related to product liability claims and lawsuits. However, some claims, such as those brought against us related to our sale of opioids, might not be covered by our insurance policies. Moreover, where the claim is covered by our insurance, if our insurance coverage is inadequate, we would have to pay the amount of any settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits. We may not be able to obtain insurance on terms acceptable to us or at all since insurance varies in cost and can be difficult to obtain. Our failure to maintain adequate insurance coverage or successfully defend against product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Our operations expose us to the risk of violations of applicable health, safety and environmental laws and regulations and related liabilities and litigation.

We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and non-U.S. environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things:

•the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials;

•emissions or discharges of substances into the environment;

•investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites;

•chemical constituents in products and end-of-life disposal, mandatory recycling and take-back programs; and

•the health and safety of our employees.

We may not have been, or we may not at all times be, in full compliance with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. In the event a regulatory authority concludes that we are not in full compliance with these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned. Environmental laws are becoming more stringent, including outside the U.S., resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens.

Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners of real property and current or previous owners or operators of facilities for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at such properties or at properties at which parties have disposed of hazardous substances. Liability for investigative, removal and remediation costs under certain federal and state laws is retroactive, strict (i.e., can be imposed regardless of fault) and joint and several. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. We have received notification from the EPA and similar state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of sites where the disposal of hazardous substances has taken place requires investigation, cleanup and other possible remedial action. These agencies may require that we reimburse the government for its costs incurred at these sites or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and cleanup of these sites, including by providing compensation for natural resource damage claims arising from such sites.

In the ordinary course of our business planning process, we take into account our known environmental matters as we plan for our future capital requirements and operating expenditures. The ultimate cost of site cleanup and timing of future cash outflows is difficult to predict, given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup methods.

30

We concluded that, as of December 27, 2019, it was probable that we would incur remediation costs in the range of $38.2 million to $86.9 million. We also concluded that, as of December 27, 2019, the best estimate within this range was $61.9 million. For further information on our environmental obligations, refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based upon information known to date, we believe our current capital and operating plans are adequate to address costs associated with the investigation, cleanup and potential remedial action for our known environmental matters.

While we have planned for future capital and operating expenditures to comply with environmental laws, our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances may exceed our estimates or could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may also be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cost recovery actions for remediation of facilities in the future based on our past, present or future business activities.

Potential indemnification liabilities to Covidien pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement could materially adversely affect us.

In connection with the separation of the Company from Covidien (which was subsequently acquired by Medtronic plc) we entered into a separation and distribution agreement that provided for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions required to effect our separation from Covidien, certain conditions to the distribution of equity interests in the Company and provisions governing the relationship between us and Covidien following such separation. The separation and distribution agreement was filed with the SEC as Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K on July 1, 2013. Among other things, the separation and distribution agreement imposes upon us certain indemnification obligations, which Covidien has asserted required us to indemnify Covidien for certain opioid-related claims brought against Covidien. If we are required to indemnify Covidien under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. These potential indemnification obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While the Litigation Settlement requires as a condition precedent that any of our indemnification liabilities to Covidien will be channeled to the Opioid Claimant Trust or otherwise resolved in a manner acceptable to us, there is no guarantee that such condition will be satisfied or that the Litigation Settlement will be effectuated on its current terms or at all.

If our business development activities are unsuccessful, it may adversely affect us.

Part of our business strategy includes evaluating potential business development opportunities to grow the business through merger, acquisition, licensing agreements or other strategic transactions. The process to evaluate potential opportunities may be complex, time-consuming and expensive. Once a potential opportunity is identified, we may not be able to conclude negotiations of a potential transaction on terms that are satisfactory to us, which could result in a significant diversion of management and other employee time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. In addition, there are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to our ability to close a potential transaction.

Once an acquisition or licensing transaction is consummated, there are further potential risks related to integration activities, including with regard to operations, personnel, technologies and products. If we are not able to successfully integrate our acquisitions in the expected time frame, we may not obtain the advantages and synergies that such acquisitions were intended to create, which may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

In addition, we intend to continue to explore opportunities to enter into strategic collaborations with other parties, which may include other pharmaceutical companies, academic and research institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. These third-party collaborators are often directly responsible for certain obligations under these types of arrangements, and we may not have the same level of decision-making capabilities for the prioritization and management of development-related activities as we would for our internal research and development activities. Failures by these partners to meet their contractual, regulatory, or other obligations to us, or any disruption in the relationships with these partners, could have a material adverse effect on our pipeline and business. In addition, these collaborative relationships for research and development could extend for many years and may give rise to disputes regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of us versus our partners, including the ownership of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations. These could result in the loss of intellectual property rights or other intellectual property protections, delay the development and sale of potential products, and lead to lengthy and expensive litigation or arbitration.

Furthermore, the due diligence that we conduct in conjunction with an acquisition or other strategic collaboration may not sufficiently discover risks and contingent liabilities associated with the other party and, consequently, we may consummate an acquisition or otherwise enter into a strategic collaboration for which the risks and contingent liabilities are greater than were projected. In addition, in connection with acquisitions or other strategic collaborations, we could experience disruption in our 

31

business, technology and information systems, and our customers, licensors, suppliers and employees and may face difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a larger and more complex company. There is also a risk that key employees of companies that we acquire or key employees necessary to successfully commercialize technologies and products that we acquire or otherwise collaborate on may seek employment elsewhere, including with our competitors. Furthermore, there may be overlap between our products or customers and the companies which we acquire or enter into strategic collaborations with that may create conflicts in relationships or other commitments detrimental to the integrated businesses or impacted products. Additionally, the time between our expenditures to acquire new products, technologies or businesses and the subsequent generation of revenues from those acquired products, technologies or businesses, or the timing of revenue recognition related to licensing agreements and/or strategic collaborations, could cause fluctuations in our financial performance from period to period. Finally, if we are unable to successfully integrate products, technologies, businesses or personnel that we acquire, we could incur significant impairment charges or other adverse financial consequences. Many of these factors are outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

If we are unable to retain our key personnel, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business.

Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, our ability to develop products and to compete with our current and future competitors will remain highly dependent, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical, regulatory and commercial personnel. The loss of key scientific, technical, regulatory and commercial personnel, or the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical, regulatory and commercial personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development or operation of our business.

Our business depends on the continued effectiveness and availability of our information technology infrastructure, and failures of this infrastructure could harm our operations.

Significant disruptions to our information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business. To remain competitive in our industry, we must employ information technologies to support manufacturing processes, quality processes, distribution, financial reporting, as well as R&D and regulatory applications that capture, manage and analyze the large streams of data generated in our clinical trials, and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. We also rely extensively on technology to allow concurrent work sharing around the world. As with all information technology, our systems are vulnerable to potential damage or interruptions from fires, blackouts, telecommunications failures and other unexpected events, as well as physical and electronic break-ins, sabotage, piracy or intentional acts of vandalism. Given the extensive reliance of our business on technology, any substantial disruption or resulting loss of data that is not avoided or corrected by our backup measures could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

We also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, some of which are outside the U.S., including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure, and as a result we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. The size and complexity of our information technology systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract, make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions. The size and complexity of our and our vendors' systems and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them also makes them potentially vulnerable to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, partners or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. We and our vendors could be susceptible to third-party attacks on our information security systems, which attacks are of ever increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise, including criminal groups, “hackers” and others. 

Maintaining the secrecy of all of our confidential, proprietary, and/or trade secret information is important to our competitive business position. However, such information can be difficult to protect. While we have taken steps to protect such information and invested heavily in information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches in our systems or the unauthorized or inadvertent wrongful use or disclosure of confidential information, including those caused by our own employees or others to whom we have granted access to our systems, that could adversely affect our business operations or result in the loss, dissemination, or misuse of critical or sensitive information. A breach of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination, misappropriation or misuse of trade secrets, proprietary information, or other confidential information, whether as a result of theft, hacking, human error, sabotage, industrial espionage, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, or for any other cause, could enable others to produce competing products, use our proprietary technology or information, and/or adversely affect our business position. Further, any such interruption, security breach, loss or disclosure of confidential information, could result in financial, legal, business, and reputational harm to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.

32

Our customer concentration may materially adversely affect our business.

We sell a significant amount of our products to a limited number of independent wholesale drug distributors, large pharmacy chains and specialty pharmaceutical distributors. In turn, these wholesale drug distributors, large pharmacy chains and specialty pharmaceutical distributors supply products to pharmacies, hospitals, governmental agencies and physicians. Sales to two of our distributors that supplies our products to many end user customers, CuraScript Inc. and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, accounted for 10.0% or more of our total net sales in the past three fiscal years. If we were to lose the business of these distributors, if these distributors failed to fulfill their obligations, if these distributors were to experience difficulty in paying us on a timely basis, or if these distributors negotiate lower pricing terms, the occurrence of one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Our product concentration may materially adversely affect our business.

We sell a wide variety of products including specialty branded and specialty generic pharmaceuticals, as well as API. However, a small number of relatively significant products, most notably Acthar Gel and to a lesser extent, INOmax, Ofirmev and Therakos, represent a significant percentage of our net sales. Our ability to maintain and increase net sales from these products depends on several factors, including:

•our ability to increase market demand for products through our own marketing and support of our sales force;

•our ability to implement and maintain pricing and continue to maintain or increase market demand for these products;

•our ability to achieve hospital and other third-party payer formulary acceptance, and maintain reimbursement levels by third-party payers;

•our ability to maintain confidentiality of the proprietary know-how and trade secrets relating to Acthar Gel;

•our ability to maintain and defend the patent protection and regulatory exclusivity of Ofirmev and INOmax;

•our ability to continue to procure raw materials or finished goods, as applicable, for Acthar Gel, Ofirmev, INOmax and Therakos from internal and third-party manufacturers in sufficient quantities and at acceptable quality and pricing levels in order to meet commercial demand;

•our ability to maintain fees and discounts payable to the wholesalers and distributors and GPOs, at commercially reasonable levels;

•whether the DOJ or other third parties seek to challenge and are successful in challenging patents or patent-related settlement agreements or our sales and marketing practices;

•warnings or limitations that may be required to be added to FDA-approved labeling; and

•the occurrence of adverse side effects related to or emergence of new information related to the therapeutic efficacy of these products, and any resulting product liability claims or product recalls.

Moreover, net sales of Acthar Gel may also be materially impacted by the decrease in the relatively small number of prescriptions written for Acthar Gel as compared to other products in our portfolio, given Acthar Gel's use in treating rare diseases. Any disruption in our ability to generate net sales from Acthar Gel could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The DEA regulates the availability of controlled substances, including API, drug products under development and marketed drug products. At times, the procurement and manufacturing quotas granted by the DEA may be insufficient to meet our needs.

The DEA is the U.S. federal agency responsible for domestic enforcement of the CSA. The CSA classifies drugs and other substances based on identified potential for abuse. Schedule I controlled substances, such as heroin and LSD, have a high abuse potential and have no currently accepted medical use; thus, they cannot be lawfully marketed or sold. Schedule II controlled substances include molecules such as oxycodone, oxymorphone, morphine, fentanyl and hydrocodone. The manufacture, storage, distribution and sale of these controlled substances are permitted, but highly regulated. The DEA regulates the availability of API, products under development and marketed drug products that are in the Schedule II category by setting annual quotas. Every year, we must apply to the DEA for manufacturing quota to manufacture API and procurement quota to manufacture finished dosage products. Given that the DEA has discretion to grant or deny our manufacturing and procurement quota requests, the quota the DEA grants may be insufficient to meet our needs. In 2018, manufacturing and procurement quotas granted by the DEA were sufficient to meet our sales and inventory requirements on most products. In 2018 and 2019, the DEA reduced the amount of opioid medication that may be 

33

manufactured in the United States by approximately 20% and 10%, respectively. For 2020, the DEA has reduced the amounts that may be produced of the eight most misused opioid molecules by approximately 13% compared to the 2019 amounts. Notably, hydrocodone and oxycodone quotas were reduced by 19% and 15%, respectively, and fentanyl quota was reduced by 31%. On September 13, 2019, the DEA proposed that benzylfentanyl and 4-anilinopiperidine be controlled as list I chemicals under the CSA. On September 17, 2019, the DEA proposed to designate norfentanyl as an immediate precursor (i.e., a substance from which another is formed) for fentanyl and to make it a Schedule II controlled substance under the CSA. The DEA could take similar actions in the future. Future delay or refusal by the DEA to grant, in whole or in part, our quota requests could delay or result in stopping the manufacture of our marketed drug products, new product launches or the conduct of bioequivalence studies and clinical trials. Such delay or refusal also could require us to allocate marketed drug products among our customers. These factors, along with any delay or refusal by the DEA to provide customers who purchase API from us with sufficient quota, could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The manufacture of our products is highly exacting and complex, and our business could suffer if we, or our suppliers, encounter manufacturing or supply problems.

The manufacture of our products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory and manufacturing requirements, as well as due to the biologic nature of some of our products which are inherently more difficult to manufacture than chemical-based products. Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors. If a batch of finished product fails to meet quality standards during a production run, then that entire batch of product may have to be discarded. These problems could lead to launch delays, product shortages, backorders, increased costs (including contractual damages for failure to meet supply requirements), lost revenue, damage to our reputation and customer relationships, time and expense spent investigating, correcting and preventing the root causes and, depending on the root causes, similar losses with respect to other products. If manufacturing problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, we also could incur product recall and product liability costs. If we incur a product recall or product liability costs involving one of our products, such product could receive reduced market acceptance and thus reduced product demand and could harm our reputation and our ability to market our products in the future. Significant manufacturing problems could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain components of our products and certain of our finished products. In the event that these third-party manufacturers cease to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or components in a timely manner and on terms acceptable to us, we could be forced to locate alternate third-party manufacturers. Additionally, if our third-party manufacturers experience a failure in their production process, are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of the components necessary to manufacture our products or otherwise fail to meet regulatory or quality requirements, we may be forced to delay the manufacture and sale of our products or locate an alternative third-party manufacturer. Several of our products are manufactured at a single manufacturing facility or stored at a single storage site. Loss or damage to a manufacturing facility or storage site due to a natural disaster or otherwise could adversely affect our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of key products or otherwise deliver products to meet customer demand or contractual requirements which may result in a loss of revenue and other adverse business consequences. Furthermore, while we work closely with our suppliers to ensure the continuity of supply and to diversify our sources of components and materials, in certain instances we do acquire components and materials from a sole supplier. Although we do carry strategic inventory and maintain insurance to mitigate the potential risk related to any related supply disruption, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective. Because of the time required to obtain regulatory approval and licensing of a manufacturing facility, an alternate third-party manufacturer may not be available on a timely basis to replace production capacity in the event we lose manufacturing capacity, experience supply challenges, or products are otherwise not available due to natural disaster, regulatory action or otherwise.

Significant manufacturing problems could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Our global operations expose us to risks and challenges associated with conducting business internationally.

We operate globally with offices or activities in Europe, Africa, Asia, South America, Australia and North America. We face several risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations. These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, export requirements, U.S. laws such as the FCPA and local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials or certain payments or remunerations to customers. Given the high level of complexity of these laws, there is a risk that some provisions may be violated, inadvertently or through fraudulent or negligent behavior of individual employees, or through our failure to comply with certain formal documentation requirements or otherwise. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines or criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and 

34

prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts and our ability to attract and retain employees.

In addition to the foregoing, engaging in international business inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including:

•potentially longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain non-U.S. legal systems;

•potential inability to sell products into certain countries given the delay of foreign governments in responding to changes in our U.S. business licensing;

•political and economic instability, including the impact of U.K.'s exit from the E.U. (commonly known as Brexit) and the related uncertainties;

•the unpredictability of U.S. trade policy, including Section 301 tariffs and U.S. trade relations with other countries, that may increase raw material cost or impact our ability to obtain the raw materials we need to manufacture our products and impact our ability to sell our products outside of the U.S.;

•potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, customs charges, bureaucratic requirements and trade barriers; 

•difficulties and costs of staffing and managing our non-U.S. operations;

•exposure to global economic conditions; 

•exposure to potentially unfavorable movements in foreign currency exchange rates associated with international net sales and operating expense and intercompany debt financings; and

•potential negative impact of public health epidemics on employees, our supply chain and the global economy, such as the coronavirus currently impacting China and elsewhere.

These or other factors or any combination of them may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of any restructuring activities we may undertake and such restructuring activities may adversely affect our business.

From time to time, we may initiate restructuring activities as we continue to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and look for opportunities to achieve operating efficiencies that will reduce costs. We may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits initially anticipated when such restructuring activities were initiated. Additionally, as a result of our restructuring activities we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Reorganizations and restructurings can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of such restructuring activities, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We have significant levels of intangible assets which utilize our future projections of cash flows in impairment testing. Should we experience unfavorable variances from these projections these assets may have an increased risk of future impairment.

Past acquisitions have significantly increased our intangible assets, which were $7,018.0 million at December 27, 2019. At least annually, we review the carrying value of our non-amortizing intangible assets, and for amortizing intangible assets when indicators of impairment are present. Conditions that could indicate impairment and necessitate an evaluation of intangible assets include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in the business climate or the legal or regulatory environment.

In performing our impairment tests, we utilize our future projections of cash flows. Projections of future cash flows are inherently subjective and reflect assumptions that may or may not ultimately be realized. Significant assumptions utilized in our projections include, but are not limited to, our evaluation of the market opportunity for our products, the current and future competitive landscape and resulting impacts to product pricing, future legislative and regulatory actions or the lack thereof, planned strategic initiatives, the ability to achieve cost synergies from acquisitions, the realization of benefits associated with our existing and anticipated patents and regulatory approvals. Given the inherent subjectivity and uncertainty in projections, we could experience significant unfavorable variances in future periods or revise our projections downward. This would result in an increased risk that our intangible assets may be impaired. If an impairment were recognized, this could have a material impact to our financial condition and results of operations.

35

We are subject to labor and employment laws and regulations, which could increase our costs and restrict our operations in the future.

We employ approximately 3,400 employees worldwide. Some of our employees are represented by labor organizations and national works councils. Our management believes that our employee relations are satisfactory. However, further organizing activities or collective bargaining may increase our employment-related costs and we may be subject to work stoppages and other labor disruptions. Moreover, if we are subject to employment-related claims, such as individual and class actions relating to alleged employment discrimination, wage-hour and labor standards issues, and such actions are successful in whole or in part, this may affect our ability to compete or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our operations may be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event at our facilities.

We depend on our manufacturing facilities, laboratories and equipment for the continued operation of our business. Our principal executive offices are located at a facility in Staines-Upon-Thames, U.K. and our Specialty Brands global manufacturing operations are located in Dublin, Ireland. In addition, we have other locations in the U.S., most notably our corporate shared services facility in Hazelwood, Missouri, our Specialty Brands commercial headquarters in Bedminster, New Jersey and our Specialty Generics headquarters and technical development center in Webster Groves, Missouri. As of December 27, 2019, we owned a total of ten facilities in the U.S., Ireland and Japan. We have 11 manufacturing sites: one in Ireland; two in Japan; and eight in the U.S. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events could still disrupt our operations. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event at any of our facilities could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Risks Related to Our Indebtedness

Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations and could further adversely affect our ability to consummate the Litigation Settlement.

We have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our financial obligations and have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position. As of December 27, 2019, total debt principal was $5,422.8 million, of which $634.5 million was classified as current, including $614.8 million aggregate principal amount of 4.875% senior unsecured notes that mature on April 15, 2020 (the "2020 Notes").

Our degree of debt leverage could have significant consequences, including the following:

•making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt;

•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate requirements;

•requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;

•limiting our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;

•placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other less leveraged competitors;

•making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressures;

•limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; and

•increasing our costs of borrowing.

As discussed in greater detail in "Debt and Capitalization" within Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have entered into certain agreements relating to potential financing and debt exchange transactions intended to address our near-term debt maturities. The transactions contemplated by these agreements are subject to a number of conditions. We cannot guarantee that we will satisfy all such conditions and, if we do 

36

not do so, we could experience heightened risks related to short-term liquidity constraints, which could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our financial obligations and jeopardize the consummation of the Litigation Settlement.

We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.

Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to fund our day-to-day operations or to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.

If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and other cash requirements, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, such alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The agreements governing our indebtedness restrict (a) our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions and (b) our ability to raise debt capital to be used to repay our indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due.

Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.

If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, lenders under any of our indebtedness could declare essentially all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our existing credit facilities could terminate their commitments to loan money, our secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing such borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.

The terms of the agreements that govern our indebtedness restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to pursue our business strategies.

The agreements that govern the terms of our indebtedness contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including limitations or restrictions on our ability to:

•incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness;

•declare or pay dividends, make other distributions with respect to equity interests, or purchase or otherwise acquire or retire equity interests;

•make any principal payment on, or redeem or repurchase, subordinated debt;

•make loans, advances or other investments;

•sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries;

•incur liens;

•enter into transactions with affiliates;

•enter into sale and lease-back transactions; and

•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell all or substantially all of our assets to, another person or entity.

In addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities require us to comply with a financial maintenance covenant in certain circumstances. Our ability to satisfy this financial maintenance covenant can be affected by events beyond our control and we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply.

A breach of the covenants under the agreements that govern the terms of any of our indebtedness could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities would permit the lenders under such facilities to terminate all commitments to extend further credit thereunder. Furthermore, if we are unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our senior secured credit facilities or other indebtedness, those lenders or investors will be able to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the holders of our debt accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness.

37

As a result of these restrictions, we may be:

•limited in how we conduct our business;

•unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or

•unable to compete effectively, execute our growth strategy or take advantage of new business opportunities.

These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our plans.

Our current debt levels and challenges in the commercial and credit environment may materially adversely affect our ability to issue debt on acceptable terms and our future access to capital.

Our ability to issue debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be materially adversely affected by our current debt levels or if there is a material decline in the demand for our products or in the solvency of our customers or suppliers or other significantly unfavorable changes in economic conditions occur. In addition, volatility in the world financial markets could increase borrowing costs or affect our ability to access the capital markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.

Our debt currently has a non-investment grade rating from Standard & Poor's Corporation ("S&P") and Moody's Investor Services, Inc. ("Moody's"). Any rating assigned could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of the notes. Any future lowering of our ratings likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing.

Our variable-rate indebtedness exposes us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.

Certain of our indebtedness, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and our receivables securitization, are subject to variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable-rate indebtedness would increase and our net income would decrease, even though the amount borrowed under the facilities remained the same. As of December 27, 2019, we had $1,924.4 million outstanding variable-rate debt on our senior secured term loans and $900.0 million outstanding on our revolving credit facility. An unfavorable movement in interest rates, primarily London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), could result in higher interest expense and cash payments for us. Although we may enter into interest rate swaps, involving the exchange of floating for fixed-rate interest payments, to reduce interest rate volatility, we cannot provide assurance that we will enter into such arrangements or that they will successfully mitigate such interest rate volatility.

Despite current and anticipated indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks described above.

We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although agreements governing our indebtedness restrict the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are and will be subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.

We may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs or to make acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on favorable or acceptable terms, and may be dilutive to existing shareholders.

We may need to seek additional financing for general corporate purposes. For example, we may need to increase our investment in R&D activities or need funds to make acquisitions. We may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. Depending on market conditions, adequate funds may not be available to us on acceptable terms and we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance products, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our shareholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest.

38

The phase out of LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with a different reference rate, may adversely affect interest rates.

On July 27, 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (the authority that regulates LIBOR) announced that it would phase out LIBOR by the end of 2021. It is unclear whether new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021, or if alternative rates or benchmarks will be adopted. Changes in the method of calculating LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative rate or benchmark, may adversely affect interest rates and result in higher borrowing costs. This could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We cannot predict the effect of the potential changes to LIBOR or the establishment and use of alternative rates or benchmarks.

Risks Related to Tax Matters

A loss of a major tax dispute or a challenge to our operating structure or intercompany pricing policies could result in a higher tax rate on our worldwide earnings, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Income tax returns that we file are subject to review and examination. We recognize the benefit of income tax positions we believe are more likely than not to be sustained upon challenge by a tax authority. If any tax authority successfully challenges our operational structure, intercompany pricing or financing policies; if the terms of certain income tax treaties are interpreted in a manner that is adverse to our structure; or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country; our effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings could increase substantially and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition.

On August 5, 2019, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") proposed an adjustment to the taxable income of Mallinckrodt Hospital Products Inc. (“MHP”) as a result of its findings in the audit of MHP's tax year ended September 26, 2014. MHP, formerly known as Cadence Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Cadence”), was acquired as a U.S. subsidiary on March 19, 2014. Following the acquisition of Cadence, we transferred certain rights and risks in Ofirmev® intellectual property (“Transferred IP”) to one of our wholly owned non-U.S. subsidiaries. The transfer occurred at a price (“Transfer Price”) determined in conjunction with our external advisors, in accordance with applicable Treasury Regulations and with reference to the $1,329.0 million taxable consideration we paid to the shareholders of Cadence. The IRS asserts the value of the Transferred IP exceeds the value of the acquired Cadence shares and, further, partially disallows our control premium subtraction. The proposed adjustment to taxable income of $871.0 million, excluding potential associated interest and penalties, is proposed as a multi-year adjustment and may result in a non-cash reduction of our U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforward of $782.0 million. We strongly disagree with the proposed increase to the Transfer Price and intend to contest it through all available administrative and judicial remedies, which may take a number of years to conclude. The final outcome cannot be reasonably quantified at this time, however, the proposed adjustment may be material. We believe our reserve for income tax contingencies is adequate.

Our status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes could be affected by a change in law.

We believe that, under current law, we are treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. However, changes in tax law, such as additional changes to the inversion rules in Internal Revenue Code ("IRC") Section 7874 or the U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder or other IRS guidance, could adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application to us and our shareholders and affiliates. In addition, previous legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, and such legislation, if passed, could have an adverse effect on us. For example, the U.S. Department of the Treasury and Congress have previously issued proposals that would amend the inversion rules. Although the proposals would generally apply to prospective transactions, no assurance can be given that such proposals will not be changed in the legislative process to apply to prior transactions.

Future changes to U.S. and foreign tax laws could adversely affect us.

The European Commission, U.S. Congress and Treasury Department, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development ("the OECD"), and other government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations, particularly payments made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. As a result, the tax laws in the U.K., Ireland, E.U., Switzerland, U.S. and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect us and our affiliates.

Recent examples include the OECD's recommendations on base erosion and profit shifting, the European Commission's Anti-Tax Avoidance Directives ("ATAD I" and "ATAD II"), the Multilateral Convention to Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (“Multilateral Instrument”) and Ireland's Budget 2019 published in October 2018 announcing changes to the corporate tax code including implementation of certain provisions of ATAD I. These initiatives include 

39

recommendations and proposals that, if enacted in countries in which we and our affiliates do business, could adversely affect us and our affiliates.

We may not be able to maintain a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate.

We cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future, because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. Our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. Additionally, the tax laws of the U.K. and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate.

A change in our tax residency could have a negative effect on our future profitability and taxes on dividends.

Under current Irish legislation, a company is regarded as resident in Ireland for tax purposes if it is centrally managed and controlled in Ireland, or, in certain circumstances, if it is incorporated in Ireland. Under current U.K. legislation, a company is regarded as resident in the U.K. for tax purposes if it is centrally managed and controlled in the U.K. Where a company is treated as tax resident under the domestic laws of both the U.K. and Ireland then the provisions of article 4(3) of the Double Taxation Convention between Ireland and the U.K. provide that such company shall be treated as resident only in the jurisdiction in which its place of effective management is situated. Since May 2015, we have managed the affairs of Mallinckrodt plc so that it is effectively managed and controlled in the U.K. and therefore be treated as resident only in the U.K. for tax purposes, by operation of the Double Taxation Convention. However, we cannot provide assurance that Mallinckrodt plc will continue to be resident only in the U.K. for tax purposes. It is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law or a change in the practice or conduct of the affairs of any relevant tax authority, Mallinckrodt plc could become, or be regarded as having become resident in a jurisdiction other than the U.K. For example, the new Multilateral Instrument, which has been ratified by both Ireland and the U.K., supersedes the application of article 4(3) of the Double Taxation Convention between Ireland and the U.K. in favor of a new process involving the competent authorities of Ireland and the U.K. If Mallinckrodt plc were considered to be a tax resident of Ireland, in addition to any U.K. tax consequences, it could become liable for Irish corporation tax and any dividends paid by it could be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax. 

Risks Related to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation

Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the U.S. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities.

It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the U.S. against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised the U.S. currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland.

A judgment obtained against us will be enforced by the courts of Ireland if the following general requirements are met: (i) U.S. courts must have had jurisdiction in relation to the particular defendant according to Irish conflict of law rules (the submission to jurisdiction by the defendant would satisfy this rule) and (ii) the judgment must be final and conclusive and the decree must be final and unalterable in the court which pronounces it. A judgment can be final and conclusive even if it is subject to appeal or even if an appeal is pending. Where however the effect of lodging an appeal under the applicable law is to stay execution of the judgment, it is possible that in the meantime the judgment may not be actionable in Ireland. It remains to be determined whether final judgment given in default of appearance is final and conclusive. However, Irish courts may refuse to enforce a judgment of the U.S. courts which meets the above requirements for one of the following reasons: (i) if the judgment is not for a definite sum of money; (ii) if the judgment was obtained by fraud; (iii) the enforcement of the judgment in Ireland would be contrary to natural or constitutional justice; (iv) the judgment is contrary to Irish public policy or involves certain U.S. laws which will not be enforced in Ireland; or (v) jurisdiction cannot be obtained by the Irish courts over the judgment debtors in the enforcement proceedings by personal service in Ireland or outside Ireland under Order 11 of the Ireland Superior Courts Rules.

As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our 

40

securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the U.S.

Irish law imposes restrictions on certain aspects of capital management.

Irish law allows our shareholders to pre-authorize shares to be issued by our Board of Directors without further shareholder approval for up to a maximum of five years. Our current authorization approved by shareholders at our 2019 Annual General Meeting is due to expire on the earlier of our 2020 Annual General Meeting or August 15, 2020 unless renewed by shareholders for a further period. We anticipate seeking the renewal of this authority at our 2020 Annual General Meeting and in subsequent years, but we cannot guarantee that such renewal will always be approved. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, including as opt-out approved by a shareholder vote, Irish law grants statutory pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash. An opt-out was approved by shareholders at our 2019 Annual General Meeting and is due to expire on the earlier of our 2020 Annual General Meeting or August 15, 2020, unless renewed for a further period. We anticipate seeking the renewal of this opt-out at our 2020 Annual General Meeting and in subsequent years but we cannot guarantee that such renewal of the opt-out from pre-emptive rights will always be approved. We cannot provide assurance that these Irish legal restrictions will not interfere with our capital management.

Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares

Our share price may fluctuate significantly.

The market price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:

•market reaction to developments related to current litigation involving our Specialty Generics business;

•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations;

•changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;

•perceived impacts to our results from acquisitions of products, license rights or businesses;

•the operating and share price performance of comparable companies;

•actual or anticipated sales of our ordinary shares;

•allegations by third parties (even if unsubstantiated) regarding our products or business practices;

•publicity and media reports potentially negative about the company or its products/reputation;

•new regulations or legislation in the U.S. relating to the development, sale or pricing of pharmaceuticals or medical devices;

•political pressure to reduce the pricing of pharmaceuticals;

•continued consolidation in pharmacy networks and among insurers that may further increase their competitive market power;

•changes to the regulatory and legal environment in which we operate; and

•U.S. and worldwide economic conditions.

Third parties, some of whom may have taken investment positions that would increase in value if our share price declines (“short sellers”), may make allegations related to our products or business practices. These short sellers make a profit when our shares decline in value, and their actions and public statements, and the resulting publicity, may cause further volatility in our share price. This volatility may cause the value of a shareholder's investment to decline.

In addition, when the market price of a company's ordinary shares drops significantly, shareholders often initiate securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources.

Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that an active trading market for our ordinary shares will continue to exist.

41

Our shareholders' percentage of ownership in Mallinckrodt may be diluted.

Our shareholders' percentage ownership in Mallinckrodt may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including equity awards granted to our directors, officers and employees. Such issuances may have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, which could materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, our articles of association entitle our Board of Directors, without shareholder approval, to cause us to issue preferred shares with such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. Preferred shares may be preferred as to dividends, rights on a winding up or voting in such a manner as our Board of Directors may resolve. The preferred shares may also be redeemable at the option of the holder of the preferred shares or at the option of us, and may be convertible into or exchangeable for shares of any other class or classes of our shares, depending on the terms of such preferred shares. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred shares could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our ordinary shares. For example, we could grant the holders of preferred shares the right to elect some number of our Board of Directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred shares could affect the residual value of our ordinary shares.

Certain provisions in our articles of association, among other things, could prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our ordinary shares.

Our articles of association contain provisions that could have the effect of deterring coercive takeover practices, inadequate takeover bids and unsolicited offers. These provisions include, among others:

•provisions of our articles of association which allow our Board of Directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan (commonly known as a "poison pill") upon such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors deems expedient and in the best interests of our company;

•a provision of our articles of association which generally prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested shareholder, subject to certain exceptions;

•rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings;

•the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred shares without shareholder approval in certain circumstances, subject to applicable law; and

•the ability of our Board of Directors to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors in certain circumstances.

These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if a takeover offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and its shareholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.

In addition, several mandatory provisions of Irish law could prevent or delay an acquisition of us. For example, Irish law does not permit shareholders of an Irish public limited company to take action by written consent with less than unanimous consent. We are also subject to various provisions of Irish law relating to mandatory bids, voluntary bids, requirements to make a cash offer and minimum price requirements, as well as substantial acquisition rules and rules requiring the disclosure of interests in our ordinary shares in certain circumstances. Also, Irish companies, including us, may only alter their memorandum of association and articles of association with the approval of the holders of at least 75% of the company's shares present and voting in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the company.

Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments.

None.

Item 2.Properties.