Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Our operations include activities in the U.S. and countries outside of the U.S. These operations expose us to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. We monitor and manage these financial exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program and have entered into derivative instruments to mitigate the exposure of movement in certain of these foreign currency transactions. 

Interest Rate Risk 

Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our variable-rate debt instruments, which bear interest based on LIBOR plus margin. As of December 27, 2019, our outstanding debt included $1,924.4 million variable-rate debt on our senior secured term loans and $900.0 million variable-rate debt on our revolving credit facility. Assuming a one percent increase in the applicable interest rates, in excess of applicable minimum floors, annual interest expense for fiscal 2019 would increase by approximately $28.2 million. 

The remaining outstanding debt as of December 27, 2019 is fixed-rate debt. Changes in market interest rates generally affect the fair value of fixed-rate debt, but do not impact earnings or cash flows.

Currency Risk 

Certain net sales and costs of our international operations are denominated in the local currency of the respective countries. As such, profits from these subsidiaries may be impacted by fluctuations in the value of these local currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. We also have significant intercompany financing arrangements that may result in gains and losses in our results of operations. In an effort to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rate effects we may hedge certain operational and intercompany transactions; however, our hedging strategies may not fully offset gains and losses recognized in our results of operations. 

The consolidated statement of operations is exposed to currency risk from intercompany financing arrangements, which primarily consist of intercompany debt and intercompany cash pooling, where the denominated currency of the transaction differs from the functional currency of one or more of our subsidiaries. The aggregate potential unfavorable impact from a hypothetical 10.0% adverse change in foreign exchange rates was $1.4 million as of December 27, 2019, with all other variables held constant. This hypothetical loss does not reflect any hypothetical benefits that would be derived from hedging activities, including cash holdings in similar foreign currencies, that we have historically utilized to mitigate our exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates. 

75

Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.