PART I

Item 1.Business.

Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck or the Company) is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies and animal health products. The Company’s operations are principally managed on a products basis and include four operating segments, which are the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Healthcare Services and Alliances segments. 

The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Human health vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities.

The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of veterinary pharmaceutical and vaccine products, as well as health management solutions and services, for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major livestock and companion animal species. The Company also offers an extensive suite of digitally connected identification, traceability and monitoring products. The Company sells its products to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. 

The Healthcare Services segment provides services and solutions that focus on engagement, health analytics and clinical services to improve the value of care delivered to patients. The Company has recently sold certain businesses in the Healthcare Services segment and is in the process of divesting the remaining businesses. While the Company continues to look for investment opportunities in this area of health care, the approach to these investments has shifted toward venture capital investments in third parties as opposed to wholly-owned businesses.

The Alliances segment primarily includes activity from the Company’s relationship with AstraZeneca LP related to sales of Nexium and Prilosec, which concluded in 2018. 

The Company was incorporated in New Jersey in 1970.

All product or service marks appearing in type form different from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service marks owned, licensed to, promoted or distributed by Merck, its subsidiaries or affiliates, except as noted. All other trademarks or services marks are those of their respective owners.

Planned Spin-Off of Women’s Health, Legacy Brands and Biosimilars into a New Company 

In February 2020, Merck announced its intention to spin-off (the Spin-Off) products from its women’s health, trusted legacy brands and biosimilars businesses into a new, yet-to-be-named, independent, publicly traded company (NewCo) through a distribution of NewCo’s publicly traded stock to Company shareholders. The distribution is expected to qualify as tax-free to the Company and its shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The legacy brands included in the transaction consist of dermatology, pain, respiratory, and select cardiovascular products including Zetia and Vytorin, as well as the rest of Merck’s diversified brands franchise. Merck’s existing research pipeline programs will continue to be owned and developed within Merck as planned. NewCo will have development capabilities initially focused on late-stage development and life-cycle management, and is expected over time to develop research capabilities in selected therapeutic areas. The Spin-Off is expected to be completed in the first half of 2021, subject to market and certain other conditions. See “Risk Factors - Risks Related to the Proposed Spin-Off of NewCo.”

1
Product Sales

Total Company sales, including sales of the Company’s top pharmaceutical products, as well as sales of animal health products, were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Other revenues are primarily comprised of Healthcare Services segment revenue, third-party manufacturing sales, and miscellaneous corporate revenues, including revenue hedging activities.

Pharmaceutical

The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Human health vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. Certain of the products within the Company’s franchises are as follows:

Oncology

Keytruda (pembrolizumab), the Company’s anti-PD-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy, as monotherapy for the treatment of certain patients with melanoma, non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), small-cell lung cancer (SCLC), head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), classical Hodgkin Lymphoma (cHL), primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL), urothelial carcinoma, microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient cancer, gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma, esophageal cancer, cervical cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, and merkel cell carcinoma. Keytruda is also used for the treatment of certain patients in combination with chemotherapy for metastatic squamous and non-squamous NSCLC, in combination with chemotherapy for HNSCC, in combination with axitinib for renal cell carcinoma, and in combination with lenvatinib for endometrial carcinoma; and Emend (aprepitant) for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting. In addition, the Company recognizes alliance revenue related to sales of Lynparza (olaparib), an oral poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor, for certain types of advanced ovarian, breast and pancreatic cancers; and Lenvima (lenvatinib) for certain types of thyroid cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, in combination with everolimus for certain patients with renal cell carcinoma, and in combination with Keytruda for certain patients with endometrial carcinoma.

Vaccines

Gardasil (Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent [Types 6, 11, 16 and 18] Vaccine, Recombinant)/Gardasil 9 (Human Papillomavirus 9-valent Vaccine, Recombinant), vaccines to help prevent certain diseases caused by certain types of human papillomavirus (HPV); ProQuad (Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella; M-M-R II (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent measles, mumps and rubella; Varivax (Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella); Pneumovax 23 (pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent), a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease; RotaTeq (Rotavirus Vaccine, Live Oral, Pentavalent), a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children; and Vaqta (hepatitis A vaccine, inactivated) indicated for the prevention of disease caused by hepatitis A virus in persons 12 months of age and older.

2
Hospital Acute Care

Bridion (sugammadex) Injection, a medication for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery; Noxafil (posaconazole) for the prevention of invasive fungal infections; Primaxin (imipenem and cilastatin sodium) an anti-bacterial product; Invanz (ertapenem sodium) for the treatment of certain infections; Cubicin (daptomycin for injection), an I.V. antibiotic for complicated skin and skin structure infections or bacteremia, when caused by designated susceptible organisms; Cancidas (caspofungin acetate), an anti-fungal product; and Prevymis (letermovir) for the prophylaxis of cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation and disease in adult CMV-seropositive recipients [R+] of an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant.

Immunology

Simponi (golimumab), a once-monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases; and Remicade (infliximab), a treatment for inflammatory diseases, which the Company markets in Europe, Russia and Turkey.

Neuroscience

Belsomra (suvorexant), an orexin receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of insomnia, characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and/or sleep maintenance.

Virology

Isentress/Isentress HD (raltegravir), an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection; and Zepatier (elbasvir and grazoprevir) for the treatment of adult patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype (GT) 1 or GT4 infection, with ribavirin in certain patient populations.

Cardiovascular

Zetia (ezetimibe) (marketed as Ezetrol in most countries outside the United States); Vytorin (ezetimibe/simvastatin) (marketed as Inegy outside the United States); Atozet (ezetimibe and atorvastatin) (marketed outside of the United States) and Rosuzet (ezetimibe and rosuvastatin) (marketed outside of the United States), cholesterol modifying medicines; and Adempas (riociguat), a cardiovascular drug for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension.

Diabetes

Januvia (sitagliptin) and Janumet (sitagliptin/metformin HCl) for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

Women’s Health

NuvaRing (etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring), a vaginal contraceptive product; and Implanon (etonogestrel implant), a single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant/Nexplanon (etonogestrel implant), a single, radiopaque, rod-shaped subdermal contraceptive implant.

Animal Health

The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of veterinary pharmaceuticals, vaccines and health management solutions and services, as well as an extensive suite of digitally connected identification, traceability and monitoring products. Principal products in this segment include:

Livestock Products

Nuflor (Florfenicol) antibiotic range for use in cattle and swine; Bovilis/Vista vaccine lines for infectious diseases in cattle; Banamine (Flunixin meglumine) bovine and swine anti-inflammatory; Estrumate (cloprostenol sodium) for the treatment of fertility disorders in cattle; Matrix (altrenogest) fertility management for swine; Resflor (florfenicol and flunixin meglumine), a combination broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for bovine respiratory disease; Zuprevo (Tildipirosin) for bovine respiratory disease; Zilmax (zilpaterol hydrochloride) and Revalor (trenbolone acetate and estradiol) to improve production efficiencies in beef cattle; Safe-Guard (fenbendazole) de-wormer for cattle; M+Pac (Mycoplasma Hyopneumoniae Bacterin) swine pneumonia vaccine; Porcilis (Lawsonia intracellularis baterin) and Circumvent (Porcine Circovirus Vaccine, Type 2, Killed Baculovirus Vector) vaccine lines for infectious diseases in swine; Nobilis/Innovax (Live Marek’s Disease Vector), vaccine lines for poultry; Paracox and Coccivac coccidiosis vaccines; Exzolt, a systemic treatment for poultry red mite infestations; Slice (Emamectin benzoate) parasiticide for sea lice in salmon; Aquavac (Avirulent Live Culture)/Norvax vaccines against bacterial and viral disease in fish; Compact PD vaccine for salmon; Aquaflor (Florfenicol) antibiotic for farm-raised fish; and Allflex Livestock Intelligence solutions for animal identification, monitoring and traceability.

3
Companion Animal Products

Bravecto (fluralaner), a line of oral and topical parasitic control products for dogs and cats that last up to 12 weeks; Nobivac vaccine lines for flexible dog and cat vaccination; Otomax (Gentamicin sulfate, USP; Betamethasone valerate USP; and Clotrimazole USP ointment)/Mometamax (Gentamicin sulfate, USP, Mometasone Furoate Monohydrate and Clotrimazole, USP, Otic Suspension)/Posatex (Orbifloxacin, Mometasone Furoate Monohydrate and Posaconazole, Suspension) ear ointments for acute and chronic otitis; Caninsulin/Vetsulin (porcine insulin zinc suspension) diabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats; Panacur (fenbendazole)/Safeguard (fenbendazole) broad-spectrum anthelmintic (de-wormer) for use in many animals; Regumate (altrenogest) fertility management for horses; Prestige vaccine line for horses; and Scalibor (Deltamethrin)/Exspot for protecting against bites from fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies.

For a further discussion of sales of the Company’s products, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below.

2019 Product Approvals

Set forth below is a summary of significant product approvals received by the Company in 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

4
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) In July 2017, Merck and AstraZeneca entered into a global strategic oncology collaboration to co-develop and co-commercialize AstraZeneca’s Lynparza.

Competition and the Health Care Environment

Competition

The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry in general are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Company’s competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, generic drug manufacturers and animal health care companies. The Company’s operations may be adversely affected by generic and biosimilar competition as the Company’s products mature, as well as technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors’ branded products, and new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance. In addition, patent rights are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the payment of royalties or in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to intangible assets associated with certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown.

Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well-positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources required to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as licensing arrangements and collaborations, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth or reduced sales for the Company’s products in that therapeutic category.

The highly competitive animal health business is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company’s products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors.

Health Care Environment and Government Regulation

Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In the United States, federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low income or uninsured patients.

6
Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health care reform legislation in 2010 (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA)). Various insurance market reforms have since advanced and state and federal insurance exchanges were launched in 2014. With respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law also required pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to Medicare Part D beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called “donut hole”). As a result of the Balanced Budget Act of 2018 and effective at the beginning of 2019, the 50% point of service discount increased to a 70% point of service discount in the coverage gap. In addition, this point of service discount was extended to biosimilar products. Merck recorded a reduction to revenue of approximately $615 million, $365 million and $385 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, related to the donut hole provision. Also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are required to pay an annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee was $4.1 billion in 2018 and decreased to $2.8 billion in 2019 and is expected to remain at that amount for 2020. The fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of prior year branded pharmaceutical sales to certain government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. The Company recorded $112 million, $124 million and $210 million of costs within Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, for the annual health care reform fee. In February 2016, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) issued the Medicaid rebate final rule that implements provisions of the ACA effective April 1, 2016. The rule provides comprehensive guidance on the calculation of Average Manufacturer Price and Best Price; two metrics utilized to determine the rebates drug manufacturers are required to pay to state Medicaid programs. The impact of changes resulting from the issuance of the rule is not material to Merck at this time. However, the Company is still awaiting guidance from CMS on two aspects of the rule that were deferred for later implementation. These include a definition of what constitutes a product ‘line extension’ and a delay in the participation of the U.S. Territories in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program until April 1, 2022. The Company will evaluate the financial impact of these two elements when they become effective.

There is significant uncertainty about the future of the ACA in particular and health care laws in general in the United States. The Company is participating in the debate, and monitoring how any proposed changes could affect its business. The Company is unable to predict the likelihood of changes to the ACA. Depending on the nature of any repeal and replacement of the ACA, such actions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.

A number of states have passed pharmaceutical price and cost transparency laws. These laws typically require manufacturers to report certain product price information or other financial data to the state. Some laws also require manufacturers to provide advance notification of price increases. The Company expects that states will continue their focus on pharmaceutical price transparency and that this focus will continue to exert pressure on product pricing.

The Company also faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care organizations, federal and state exchanges, and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 and the ACA.

Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the United States, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. As an example, health care reform is contributing to an increase in the number of patients in the Medicaid program under which sales of pharmaceutical products are subject to substantial rebates. 

The pharmaceutical industry could be considered a potential source of savings via legislative proposals that have been debated but not enacted. These types of revenue generating or cost saving proposals include additional direct price controls. In addition, Congress and/or the administration may again consider proposals to allow international reference pricing or, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries.

The administration has recently proposed a draft rule that would allow importation of certain lower-cost prescription drugs from Canada. If the rule is finalized as proposed, states or certain other non-federal governmental entities would be able to submit importation program proposals to the FDA for review and authorization of two-year programs (with the opportunity to extend for two more years). There will be a public comment period on the proposed rule which will expire on March 9, 2020. Following the comment period, the FDA will have to review and finalize its 

7
proposal before any states or other parties can submit their plans to comply with the federal rule. If the proposed rule is adopted, it likely will be some time before states or other parties can actually implement importation plans. 

In October 2018, the administration also issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking to implement an “International Pricing Index” (IPI) model in the United States for products covered under Medicare Part B. The proposal would: (1) reduce Medicare Part B payments for drugs based on a market basket of international prices; (2) allow private sector vendors to negotiate prices for drugs, take title to drugs, and compete for physician and hospital business; and (3) change the physician reimbursement under Medicare Part B from the current model to eliminate the buy and bill system and instead pay physicians based on a flat fee that approximates the revenue they currently receive from drugs. Public comments on the IPI proposal were accepted through late 2018 and it is unclear when the agency may issue a proposed rule on the IPI model. Adoption of one or both of the proposed rules could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.

It remains uncertain as to what proposals, if any, may be included as part of future federal legislative proposals that would directly or indirectly affect the Company.

In the U.S. private sector, consolidation and integration among health care providers is a major factor in the competitive marketplace for pharmaceutical products. Health plans and pharmacy benefit managers have been consolidating into fewer, larger entities, thus enhancing their purchasing strength and importance. Private third-party insurers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. Failure to obtain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for Merck’s products or obtaining such placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue. In addition to formulary tier co-pay differentials, private health insurance companies and self-insured employers have been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. Private health insurance companies also are increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as clinical protocols, requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine. These same management tools are also used in treatment areas in which the payer has taken the position that multiple branded products are therapeutically comparable. As the U.S. payer market concentrates further and as more drugs become available in generic form, pharmaceutical companies may face greater pricing pressure from private third-party payers.

In order to provide information about the Company’s pricing practices, the Company annually posts on its website its Pricing Transparency Report for the United States. The report provides the Company’s average annual list price, net price increases, and average discounts across the Company’s U.S. portfolio dating back to 2010. In 2019, the Company’s gross U.S. sales were reduced by approximately 44% as a result of rebates, discounts and returns. 

Efforts toward health care cost containment also remain intense in European countries. The Company faces competitive pricing pressure resulting from generic and biosimilar drugs. In addition, a majority of countries in Europe attempt to contain drug costs by engaging in reference pricing in which authorities examine pre-determined markets for published prices of drugs by brand. The authorities then use price data from those markets to set new local prices for brand-name drugs, including the Company’s drugs. Guidelines for examining reference pricing are usually set in local markets and can be changed pursuant to local regulations.

In addition, in Japan, the pharmaceutical industry is subject to government-mandated biennial price reductions of pharmaceutical products and certain vaccines, which occurred in 2018 and will occur again in 2020. Furthermore, the government can order re-pricings for specific products if it determines that use of such product will exceed certain thresholds defined under applicable re-pricing rules. Pursuant to those rules, the Japanese government reduced the price of Keytruda by 17.5% effective February 2020. Additionally, Keytruda will be subject to another significant price reduction in April 2020 under a provision of the Japanese pricing rules.

The Company’s business in China has grown rapidly in the past few years, and the importance of China to the Company’s overall pharmaceutical and vaccines business has increased accordingly. Continued growth of the Company’s business in China is dependent upon ongoing development of a favorable environment for innovative pharmaceutical products and vaccines, sustained access for the Company’s current in-line products, and the absence of trade impediments or adverse pricing controls. In recent years, the Chinese government has introduced and implemented a number of structural reforms to accelerate the shift to innovative products and reduce costs. Since 2017, there have been multiple new policies introduced by the government to improve access to new innovation, reduce the 

8
complexity of regulatory filings, and accelerate the review and approval process. This has led to a significant increase in the number of new products being approved each year. Additionally, in 2017, the Chinese government updated the National Reimbursement Drug List for the first time in eight years. While the mechanism for drugs being added to the list evolves, inclusion may require a price negotiation which could impact the outlook in the market for selected brands. In 2019, drugs were added through two pathways, direct inclusion and price negotiations. For price negotiations, price reductions of approximately 60% on average were required for inclusion. While pricing pressure has always existed in China, health care reform has increased this pressure in part due to the acceleration of generic substitution through volume based procurement (VBP). In 2019, the government implemented the VBP program through a tendering process for mature products which have generic substitutes with a Generic Quality Consistency Evaluation approval. Mature products that have entered into the first two rounds of VBP have had, on average, a price reduction of 50%. The expansion of the VBP program remains to be seen.

The Company’s focus on emerging markets, in addition to China, has continued. Governments in many emerging markets are also focused on constraining health care costs and have enacted price controls and related measures, such as compulsory licenses, that aim to put pressure on the price of pharmaceuticals and constrain market access. The Company anticipates that pricing pressures and market access challenges will continue in 2020 to varying degrees in the emerging markets, including China.

Certain markets outside of the United States have also implemented other cost management strategies, such as health technology assessments (HTA). Examples include the UK, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy and Sweden. The HTA process is the procedure according to which the assessment of the public health impact, therapeutic impact, and the economic and social impact of use of a given medicinal product in the national health care system of the individual country is conducted. HTAs generally focus on the clinical efficacy and effectiveness, safety, cost, and cost-effectiveness of individual medicinal products as well as their potential implications for the health care system. Those elements of medicinal products are compared with other treatment options available on the market. The outcome of HTAs will often influence the pricing and reimbursement status granted to medicinal products by the regulatory authorities of individual European Union (EU) Member States. A negative HTA of one of the Company’s products by a leading and recognized HTA body could undermine the Company’s ability to obtain reimbursement for such product in the EU Member State in which such negative assessment was issued, and also in other EU Member States. HTA procedures require additional data, reviews and administrative processes, all of which increase the complexity, timing and costs of obtaining product reimbursement and exert downward pressure on available reimbursement. In the United States, HTAs are also being used by government and private payers.

Beyond pricing and market access challenges, other conditions in emerging market countries can affect the Company’s efforts to continue to grow in these markets, including potential political instability, changes in trade sanctions and embargoes, significant currency fluctuation and controls, financial crises, limited or changing availability of funding for health care, and other developments that may adversely impact the business environment for the Company. Further, the Company may engage third-party agents to assist in operating in emerging market countries, which may affect its ability to realize continued growth and may also increase the Company’s risk exposure.

In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company engages in public policy advocacy with policymakers and continues to work to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The Company advocates with government policymakers to encourage a long-term approach to sustainable health care financing that ensures access to innovative medicines and does not disproportionately target pharmaceuticals as a source of budget savings. In markets with historically low rates of health care spending, the Company encourages those governments to increase their investments and adopt market reforms in order to improve their citizens’ access to appropriate health care, including medicines.

Operating conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of these and other factors on the Company’s business, the Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well-positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces.

The pharmaceutical industry is also subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world focused on standards and processes for determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement.

9
Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In some cases, the FDA requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. At the same time, the FDA has committed to expediting the development and review of products bearing the “breakthrough therapy” designation, which has accelerated the regulatory review process for medicines with this designation. The FDA has also undertaken efforts to bring generic competition to market more efficiently and in a more timely manner.

The EU has adopted directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution, integrity of the supply chain, enhanced pharmacovigilance monitoring and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional regulations by the EU member states. In particular, EU regulators may approve products subject to a number of post-authorization conditions. Examples of typical post-authorization commitments include additional pharmacovigilance, the conduct of clinical trials, the establishment of patient registries, physician or patient education and controlled distribution and prescribing arrangements. Non-compliance with post-authorization conditions, pharmacovigilance and other obligations can lead to regulatory action, including the variation, suspension or withdrawal of the marketing authorizations, or other enforcement or regulatory actions, including the imposition of financial penalties. The Company’s policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Company’s business.

The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including launching new drugs, in this regulatory environment. (See “Research and Development” below for a discussion of the regulatory approval process.)

Access to Medicines

As a global health care company, Merck’s primary role is to discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in helping to improve access to its medicines, vaccines, and to quality health care around the world. The Company’s efforts in this regard are wide-ranging and include a set of principles that the Company strives to embed into its operations and business strategies to guide the Company’s worldwide approach to expanding access to health care. In addition, through innovative social investments, including philanthropic programs and impact investing, Merck is also helping to strengthen health systems and build capacity, particularly in under-resourced communities. The Merck Patient Assistance Program provides medicines and adult vaccines for free to people in the United States who do not have prescription drug or health insurance coverage and who, without the Company’s assistance, cannot afford their Merck medicines and vaccines. In 2011, Merck launched “Merck for Mothers,” a long-term effort with global health partners to end preventable deaths from complications of pregnancy and childbirth. Merck has also provided funds to the Merck Foundation, an independent grantmaking organization, which has partnered with a variety of organizations dedicated to improving global health.

Privacy and Data Protection

The Company is subject to a significant number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally, many of which place restrictions on the Company’s ability to transfer, access and use personal data across its business. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve. There has been increased attention to privacy and data protection issues in both developed and emerging markets with the potential to affect directly the Company’s business, including both the EU General Data Protection Regulation, which went into effect on May 25, 2018 and imposes penalties of up to 4% of global revenue, and the California Consumer Privacy Act, which became effective January 1, 2020. Additional laws and regulations enacted in the United States, Europe, Asia and Latin America, increased enforcement and litigation activity in the United States and other developed markets, and increased regulatory cooperation among privacy authorities globally. The Company has adopted a comprehensive global privacy program to manage these evolving risks which has been certified as compliant with and approved by the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Cross-Border Privacy Rules System, the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Programs, and the Binding Corporate Rules in the EU.

Distribution

The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers, such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy 

10
benefit managers and other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company’s professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the Company’s pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices, hospitals and managed care organizations. The Company sells its animal health products to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers.

Raw Materials

Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the Company’s business.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to the Company’s marketing of its products in the United States and in most major foreign markets. Patents may cover products per se, pharmaceutical formulations, processes for, or intermediates useful in, the manufacture of products, or the uses of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage.

The Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act includes a Pediatric Exclusivity Provision that may provide an additional six months of market exclusivity in the United States for indications of new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric studies are completed by the applicant. Current U.S. patent law provides additional patent term for periods when the patented product was under regulatory review by the FDA. The EU also provides an additional six months of pediatric market exclusivity attached to a product’s Supplementary Protection Certificate (SPC). Japan provides the additional term for pediatric studies attached to market exclusivity unrelated to patent term.

Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the Company normally provide market exclusivity. The Company has the following key patent protection in the United States, the EU, Japan and China (including the potential for patent term extensions (PTE) and SPCs where indicated) for the following marketed products:

11
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note:Compound patent unless otherwise noted. Certain of the products listed may be the subject of patent litigation. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 10. “Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities” below.

N/A:Currently no marketing approval.

(1) The EU date represents the expiration date for the following five countries: France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom (Major EU Markets). If SPC applications have been filed but have not been granted in all Major EU Markets, both the patent expiry date and the SPC expiry date are listed.

(2) The PTE system in Japan allows for a patent to be extended more than once provided the later approval is directed to a different indication from that of the previous approval. This may result in multiple PTE approvals for a given patent, each with its own expiration date.

(3) Eligible for 6 months Pediatric Exclusivity.

(4) The Company has no marketing rights in the U.S., Japan or China.

(5) Expiration of the distribution agreement with Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

(6) Part of a global strategic oncology collaboration with Eisai.

(7) Being commercialized in a worldwide collaboration with Bayer AG.

(8) Part of a global strategic oncology collaboration with AstraZeneca.

(9) Being commercialized and promoted in a worldwide, except Japan, collaboration with Pfizer Inc.

12
The Company also has the following key U.S. patent protection for drug candidates in Phase 3 development: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Being developed in a worldwide collaboration with Bayer AG.

Unless otherwise noted, the patents in the above charts are compound patents. Each patent may be subject to a future patent term restoration of up to five years and six month pediatric market exclusivity, either or both of which may be available. In addition, depending on the circumstances surrounding any final regulatory approval of the compound, there may be other listed patents or patent applications pending that could have relevance to the product as finally approved; the relevance of any such application would depend upon the claims that ultimately may be granted and the nature of the final regulatory approval of the product. Also, regulatory exclusivity tied to the protection of clinical data is complementary to patent protection and, in some cases, may provide more effective or longer lasting marketing exclusivity than a compound’s patent estate. In the United States, the data protection generally runs five years from first marketing approval of a new chemical entity, extended to seven years for an orphan drug indication and 12 years from first marketing approval of a biological product.

While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from: (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may be available under relevant law. The effect of product patent expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many other factors such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other countries.

Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in patent life have been partially offset by an increase in the number of incentives for and use of generic products. Additionally, improvements in intellectual property laws are sought in the United States and other countries through reform of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of international treaties.

For further information with respect to the Company’s patents, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 10. “Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities” below.

Worldwide, all of the Company’s important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely.

Royalty income in 2019 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $135 million. Merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $1.7 billion in 2019 under patent and know-how licenses it holds.

Research and Development

The Company’s business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. At December 31, 2019, approximately 15,600 people were employed in the Company’s research activities. The Company prioritizes its research and development efforts and focuses on candidates that it believes represent breakthrough science that will make a difference for patients and payers.

The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. The Company’s research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the 

13
Company’s research and development resources on candidates the Company believes are capable of providing unambiguous, promotable advantages to patients and payers and delivering the maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Merck is pursuing emerging product opportunities independent of therapeutic area or modality (small molecule, biologics and vaccines) and is building its biologics capabilities. The Company is committed to ensuring that externally sourced programs remain an important component of its pipeline strategy, with a focus on supplementing its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as access to new technologies.

The Company’s clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and other metabolic diseases, infectious diseases, neurosciences, pain, respiratory diseases, and vaccines.

In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the United States and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through pre-clinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the United States, recorded data on pre-clinical and clinical experience are included in the NDA for a drug or the Biologics License Application (BLA) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the FDA for the required approval.

Once the Company’s scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologic that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the Company commences pre-clinical testing with that compound. Pre-clinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. Pending acceptable pre-clinical data, the Company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. The clinical testing begins with Phase 1 studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. If favorable, additional, larger Phase 2 studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound’s usefulness. In some situations, the clinical program incorporates adaptive design methodology to use accumulating data to decide how to modify aspects of the ongoing clinical study as it continues, without undermining the validity and integrity of the trial. One type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive Phase 2a/2b trial design, a two-stage trial design consisting of a Phase 2a proof-of-concept stage and a Phase 2b dose-optimization finding stage. If data from the Phase 2 trials are satisfactory, the Company commences large-scale Phase 3 trials to confirm the compound’s efficacy and safety. Another type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive Phase 2/3 trial design, a study that includes an interim analysis and an adaptation that changes the trial from having features common in a Phase 2 study (e.g. multiple dose groups) to a design similar to a Phase 3 trial. An adaptive Phase 2/3 trial design reduces timelines by eliminating activities which would be required to start a separate study. Upon completion of Phase 3 trials, if satisfactory, the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. There can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed.

Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. Pre-clinical testing focuses on the vaccine’s safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). Pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. Initial Phase 1 clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. Phase 2 studies are dose-ranging studies. Finally, Phase 3 trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. If successful, the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies.

In the United States, the FDA review process begins once a complete NDA or BLA is submitted, received and accepted for review by the agency. Within 60 days after receipt, the FDA determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. The FDA also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. Pursuant to the Prescription Drug User Fee Act V (PDUFA), the FDA review period target for NDAs or original BLAs is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review, from the time the application is deemed sufficiently complete. Once the review timelines are determined, the FDA will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the Company’s own initiative or the FDA’s request) to the pending application. If this occurs, the FDA may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than three months. Extensions to the review period are communicated to the Company. The FDA can act on an application either by issuing an approval letter or by issuing a Complete Response Letter (CRL) stating that the application will not be approved in its present form and describing all deficiencies that the FDA has identified. Should the Company wish to pursue an application after receiving a CRL, it can resubmit the application with information that addresses the questions or issues identified by the FDA in 

14
order to support approval. Resubmissions are subject to review period targets, which vary depending on the underlying submission type and the content of the resubmission.

The FDA has four program designations — Fast Track, Breakthrough Therapy, Accelerated Approval, and Priority Review — to facilitate and expedite development and review of new drugs to address unmet medical needs in the treatment of serious or life-threatening conditions. The Fast Track designation provides pharmaceutical manufacturers with opportunities for frequent interactions with FDA reviewers during the product’s development and the ability for the manufacturer to do a rolling submission of the NDA/BLA. A rolling submission allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the FDA on an ongoing basis. The Breakthrough Therapy designation provides manufacturers with all of the features of the Fast Track designation as well as intensive guidance on implementing an efficient development program for the product and a commitment by the FDA to involve senior managers and experienced staff in the review. The Accelerated Approval designation allows the FDA to approve a product based on an effect on a surrogate or intermediate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a product’s clinical benefit and generally requires the manufacturer to conduct required post-approval confirmatory trials to verify the clinical benefit. The Priority Review designation means that the FDA’s goal is to take action on the NDA/BLA within six months, compared to ten months under standard review.

In addition, under the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now Act, the FDA may grant Qualified Infectious Disease Product (QIDP) status to antibacterial or antifungal drugs intended to treat serious or life threatening infections including those caused by antibiotic or antifungal resistant pathogens, novel or emerging infectious pathogens, or other qualifying pathogens. QIDP designation offers certain incentives for development of qualifying drugs, including Priority Review of the NDA when filed, eligibility for Fast Track designation, and a five-year extension of applicable exclusivity provisions under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.

The primary method the Company uses to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU is through the “centralized procedure.” This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) with the European Medicines Agency (EMA). After the EMA evaluates the MAA, it provides a recommendation to the EC and the EC then approves or denies the MAA. It is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the EU through a “mutual recognition procedure” in which an application is made to a single member state and, if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states.

Outside of the United States and the EU, the Company submits marketing applications to national regulatory authorities. Examples of such are the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan, Health Canada, Agência Nacional de Vigilância Sanatária in Brazil, Korea Food and Drug Administration in South Korea, Therapeutic Goods Administration in Australia and the National Medical Products Administration in China. Each country has a separate and independent review process and timeline. In many markets, approval times can be longer as the regulatory authority requires approval in a major market, such as the United States or the EU, and issuance of a Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product from that market before initiating their local review process.

Research and Development Update

The Company currently has several candidates under regulatory review in the United States and internationally.

Keytruda is an anti-PD-1 therapy approved for the treatment of many cancers that is in clinical development for expanded indications. These approvals were the result of a broad clinical development program that currently consists of more than 1,000 clinical trials, including more than 600 trials that combine Keytruda with other cancer treatments. These studies encompass more than 30 cancer types including: biliary tract, cervical, colorectal, cutaneous squamous cell, endometrial, gastric, head and neck, hepatocellular, Hodgkin lymphoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, melanoma, mesothelioma, nasopharyngeal, non-small-cell lung, ovarian, PMBCL, prostate, renal, small-cell lung, triple-negative breast, and urothelial, many of which are currently in Phase 3 clinical development. Further trials are being planned for other cancers.

Keytruda is under review in the EU as monotherapy for the first-line treatment of patients with stage III NSCLC who are not candidates for surgical resection or definitive chemoradiation, or metastatic NSCLC, and whose tumors express PD-L1 (TPS ≥1%) with no EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations based on results from the Phase 3 KEYNOTE-042 trial.

15
Keytruda is under review in Japan as monotherapy and in combination with chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of advanced gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma based on results from the pivotal Phase 3 KEYNOTE-062 trial.

Keytruda is also under review in Japan as monotherapy for the second-line treatment of advanced or metastatic esophageal or esophagogastric junction carcinoma based on the results of the Phase 3 KEYNOTE-181 trial. Merck has made the decision to withdraw its Type II variation application for Keytruda for this indication in the EU.

In October 2019, the FDA accepted a supplemental BLA seeking use of Keytruda for the treatment of patients with recurrent and/or metastatic cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) that is not curable by surgery or radiation based on the results of the KEYNOTE-629 trial. The FDA set a PDUFA date of June 29, 2020.

In February 2020, Merck announced the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter (CRL) regarding Merck’s supplemental BLAs seeking to update the dosing frequency for Keytruda to include a 400 mg dose infused over 30 minutes every-six-weeks (Q6W) option in multiple indications. The submitted applications are based on pharmacokinetic modeling and simulation data presented at the 2018 American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Annual Meeting. These data supported the EC approval of 400 mg Q6W dosing for Keytruda monotherapy indications in March 2019. Merck is reviewing the letter and will discuss next steps with the FDA.

Additionally, Keytruda has received Breakthrough Therapy designation from the FDA in combination with neoadjuvant chemotherapy for the treatment of high-risk early-stage triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) and in combination with enfortumab vedotin, in the first-line setting for the treatment of patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer who are not eligible for cisplatin-containing chemotherapy. The FDA’s Breakthrough Therapy designation is intended to expedite the development and review of a candidate that is planned for use, alone or in combination, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition when preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. 

In September 2019, Merck announced results from the pivotal neoadjuvant/adjuvant Phase 3 KEYNOTE-522 trial in patients with early-stage TNBC. The trial investigated a regimen of neoadjuvant Keytruda plus chemotherapy, followed by adjuvant Keytruda as monotherapy (the Keytruda regimen) compared with a regimen of neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by adjuvant placebo (the chemotherapy-placebo regimen). Interim findings were presented at the European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) 2019 Congress. In the neoadjuvant phase, Keytruda plus chemotherapy resulted in a statistically significant increase in pathological complete response (pCR) versus chemotherapy in patients with early-stage TNBC. The improvement seen when adding Keytruda to neoadjuvant chemotherapy was observed regardless of PD-L1 expression. In the other dual primary endpoint of event-free-survival (EFS), with a median follow-up of 15.5 months, the Keytruda regimen reduced the risk of progression in the neoadjuvant phase and recurrence in the adjuvant phase compared with the chemotherapy-placebo regimen. Merck continues to discuss interim analysis data from KEYNOTE-522 with regulatory authorities. The Keytruda breast cancer clinical development program encompasses several internal and external collaborative studies. 

In February 2020, Merck announced that the pivotal Phase 3 KEYNOTE-355 trial investigating Keytruda in combination with chemotherapy met one of its dual primary endpoints of progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (mTNBC) whose tumors expressed PD-L1 (CPS ≥10). Based on an interim analysis conducted by an independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC), first-line treatment with Keytruda in combination with chemotherapy (nab-paclitaxel, paclitaxel or gemcitabine/carboplatin) demonstrated a statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in PFS compared to chemotherapy alone in these patients. Based on the recommendation of the DMC, the trial will continue without changes to evaluate the other dual primary endpoint of overall survival (OS). 

In May 2019, Merck announced that the Phase 3 KEYNOTE-119 trial evaluating Keytruda as monotherapy for the second- or third-line treatment of patients with metastatic TNBC did not meet its pre-specified primary endpoint of superior OS compared to chemotherapy. Other endpoints were not formally tested per the study protocol because the primary endpoint of OS was not met. 

In June 2019, Merck announced full results from the pivotal Phase 3 KEYNOTE-062 trial evaluating Keytruda as monotherapy and in combination with chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of advanced gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma. In the monotherapy arm of the study, Keytruda met a primary endpoint by demonstrating noninferiority to chemotherapy, the current standard of care, for OS in patients whose tumors expressed PD-L1 (CPS ≥1). In the combination arm of KEYNOTE-062, Keytruda plus chemotherapy was not found to be statistically superior for OS (CPS ≥1 or CPS ≥10) or PFS (CPS ≥1) compared with chemotherapy alone. Results were presented at the 2019 American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Annual Meeting. In September 2017, the FDA 

16
approved Keytruda as a third-line treatment for previously treated patients with recurrent locally advanced or metastatic gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer whose tumors express PD-L1 (CPS ≥1) as determined by an FDA-approved test. KEYNOTE-062 was a potential confirmatory trial for this accelerated, third-line approval. In addition to KEYNOTE-062, additional first-line, Phase 3 studies in Merck’s gastric clinical program include KEYNOTE-811 and KEYNOTE-859, as well as KEYNOTE-585 in the neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment setting. 

In January 2020, Merck announced that the Phase 3 KEYNOTE-604 trial investigating Keytruda in combination with chemotherapy met one of its dual primary endpoints of PFS in the first-line treatment of patients with extensive stage SCLC. At the final analysis of the study, there was also an improvement in OS for patients treated with Keytruda in combination with chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone; however, these OS results did not meet statistical significance per the pre-specified statistical plan. Results will be presented at an upcoming medical meeting and discussed with regulatory authorities.

Lynparza, is an oral PARP inhibitor currently approved for certain types of advanced ovarian, breast and pancreatic cancers being co-developed for multiple cancer types as part of a collaboration with AstraZeneca. 

Lynparza is under review in the EU as a first-line maintenance monotherapy for patients with gBRCAm metastatic pancreatic cancer whose disease has not progressed following first-line platinum-based chemotherapy. Lynparza was approved for this indication by the FDA in December 2019 based on results from the Phase 3 POLO trial. A decision from the EMA is expected in the second half of 2020.

In January 2020, the FDA accepted a supplemental NDA for Lynparza in combination with bevacizumab for the maintenance treatment of women with advanced ovarian cancer whose disease showed a complete or partial response to first-line treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy and bevacizumab based on the results from the pivotal Phase 3 PAOLA-1 trial. A PDUFA date is set for the second quarter of 2020. This indication is also under review in the EU.

In January 2020, the FDA accepted for Priority Review a supplemental NDA for Lynparza for the treatment of patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) and deleterious or suspected deleterious germline or somatic homologous recombination repair (HRR) gene mutations, who have progressed following prior treatment with a new hormonal agent based on positive results from the Phase 3 PROfound trial. A PDUFA date is set for the second quarter of 2020. This indication is also under review in the EU.

In June 2019, Merck and AstraZeneca presented full results from the Phase 3 SOLO-3 trial which evaluated Lynparza, compared to chemotherapy, for the treatment of platinum-sensitive relapsed patients with gBRCAm advanced ovarian cancer, who have received two or more prior lines of chemotherapy. The results from the trial showed a statistically-significant and clinically-meaningful improvement in objective response rate (ORR) in the Lynparza arm compared to the chemotherapy arm. The key secondary endpoint of PFS was also significantly increased in the Lynparza arm compared to the chemotherapy arm. The results were presented at the 2019 ASCO Annual Meeting. 

MK-5618, selumetinib, is a MEK 1/2 inhibitor being co-developed as part of a strategic collaboration with AstraZeneca. Selumetinib is under Priority Review with the FDA as a potential new medicine for pediatric patients aged three years and older with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and symptomatic, inoperable plexiform neurofibromas. This regulatory submission was based on positive results from the National Cancer Institute Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program-sponsored SPRINT Phase 2 Stratum 1 trial. A PDUFA date is set for the second quarter of 2020.

V503 is under review in Japan for an initial indication in females for the prevention of certain HPV-related diseases and precursors.

In February 2020, the FDA accepted for Priority Review a supplemental BLA for Gardasil 9 for the prevention of certain head and neck cancers caused by vaccine-type HPV in females and males 9 through 45 years of age. The FDA set a PDUFA date of June 2020.

In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the Company has several drug candidates in Phase 3 clinical development in addition to the Keytruda programs discussed above.

Lynparza, in addition to the indications under review discussed above, is in Phase 3 development in combination with Keytruda for the treatment of NSCLC.

Lenvima is an orally available tyrosine kinase inhibitor currently approved for certain types of thyroid cancer, HCC, and in combination for certain patients with RCC being co-developed as part of a strategic collaboration with Eisai. Pursuant to the agreement, the companies will jointly initiate clinical studies evaluating the Keytruda/Lenvima combination in six types of cancer (endometrial cancer, NSCLC, HCC, HNSCC, bladder cancer and melanoma), as well as a basket trial targeting multiple cancer types. The FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation 

17
for Keytruda in combination with Lenvima both for the potential treatment of patients with advanced and/or metastatic RCC and for the potential treatment of patients with unresectable HCC not amenable to locoregional treatment.

MK-7264, gefapixant, is a selective, non-narcotic, orally-administered P2X3-receptor antagonist being investigated in Phase 3 trials for the treatment of refractory, chronic cough and in a Phase 2 trial for the treatment of women with endometriosis-related pain. 

MK-1242, vericiguat, is a sGC stimulator for the potential treatment of patients with worsening chronic heart failure being developed as part of a worldwide strategic collaboration between Merck and Bayer. Vericiguat is being studied in patients suffering from chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (Phase 3 clinical trial) and from chronic heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (Phase 2 clinical trial). In November 2019, Merck announced that the Phase 3 VICTORIA study evaluating the efficacy and safety of vericiguat met the primary efficacy endpoint. Vericiguat reduced the risk of the composite endpoint of heart failure hospitalization or cardiovascular death in patients with worsening chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction compared to placebo when given in combination with available heart failure therapies. The results of the VICTORIA study will be presented at an upcoming medical meeting in 2020.

V114 is an investigational polyvalent conjugate vaccine for the prevention of pneumococcal disease. In June 2018, Merck initiated the first Phase 3 study in the adult population for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease. Currently six Phase 3 adult studies are ongoing, including studies in healthy adults 50 years of age or older, adults with risk factors for pneumococcal disease, those infected with HIV, and those who are recipients of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant. In October 2018, Merck began the first Phase 3 study in the pediatric population. Currently, eight studies are ongoing, including studies in healthy infants and in children afflicted with sickle cell disease. V114 has received Breakthrough Therapy designation from the FDA for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease caused by the vaccine serotypes in pediatric patients (6 weeks to 18 years of age) and in adults.

The chart below reflects the Company’s research pipeline as of February 21, 2020. Candidates shown in Phase 3 include specific products and the date such candidate entered into Phase 3 development. Candidates shown in Phase 2 include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. Small molecules and biologics are given MK-number designations and vaccine candidates are given V-number designations. Except as otherwise noted, candidates in Phase 1, additional indications in the same therapeutic area (other than with respect to cancer) and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown.

18
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Employees

As of December 31, 2019, the Company had approximately 71,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 26,000 employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Approximately 30% of worldwide employees of the Company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. 

Restructuring Activities

In early 2019, Merck approved a new global restructuring program (Restructuring Program) as part of a worldwide initiative focused on further optimizing the Company’s manufacturing and supply network, as well as reducing its global real estate footprint. This program is a continuation of the Company’s plant rationalization, builds on prior restructuring programs and does not include any actions associated with the planned spin-off of NewCo. As the Company continues to evaluate its global footprint and overall operating model, it has subsequently identified additional actions under the Restructuring Program, and could identify further actions over time. The actions currently contemplated under the Restructuring Program are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2023. Actions under previous global restructuring programs have been substantially completed.

Environmental Matters

The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $19 million in 2019 and are estimated at $47 million in the aggregate for the years 2020 through 2024. These amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. The Company has taken an active role in identifying and accruing for these costs and, in management’s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $67 million and $71 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome 

19
of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $58 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year.

Merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. Some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the Company’s facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. These potential risks are integrated into the Company’s business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. The Company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time.

Geographic Area Information

The Company’s operations outside the United States are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the United States as a percentage of total Company sales were 57% of sales in each of 2019, 2018 and 2017.

The Company’s worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions.

Merck has operations in countries located in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. Business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time.

Available Information

The Company’s Internet website address is www.merck.com. The Company will make available, free of charge at the “Investors” portion of its website, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The address of that website is www.sec.gov. In addition, the Company will provide without charge a copy of its Annual Report on Form 10-K, including financial statements and schedules, upon the written request of any shareholder to the Office of the Secretary, Merck & Co., Inc., 2000 Galloping Hill Road, K1-4157, Kenilworth, NJ 07033 U.S.A.

The Company’s corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Board of Directors’ four standing committees are available on the Company’s website at www.merck.com/about/leadership and all such information is available in print to any shareholder who requests it from the Company.

Item 1A.Risk Factors.