Item 1: Business

General

Motorola Solutions is a global leader in mission critical communications and analytics. Our technology platforms in mission critical communications, command center software and video security, bolstered by managed and support services, make cities safer and help communities and businesses thrive. We serve more than 100,000 public safety and commercial customers in over 100 countries and have a rich heritage of innovation spanning more than 90 years.

We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware as the successor to an Illinois corporation, Motorola, Inc., organized in 1928. We changed our name from Motorola, Inc. to Motorola Solutions, Inc. on January 4, 2011. Our principal executive offices are located at 500 W. Monroe St., Chicago, Illinois 60661.

Business Organization

Products and Systems Integration Segment 

 The Products and Systems Integration segment offers an extensive portfolio of devices, including land mobile radio ("LMR") handsets, infrastructure and accessories, as well as video security devices and infrastructure. The segment also includes the implementation and integration of such systems, devices and applications. The primary customers of the Products and Systems Integration segment are government, public safety and first responder agencies and municipalities. We also sell to commercial and industrial customers who use private radio networks and video security in the course of their operations. In 2019, the segment’s net sales were $5.3 billion, representing 68% of our consolidated net sales. The Products and Systems Integration segment has the following two principal product lines: 

Devices: Devices includes two-way portable and vehicle-mounted radios, fixed and mobile video cameras and accessories. Devices represented 65% of the net sales of the Products and Systems Integration segment in 2019.

Systems and Systems Integration: Systems and Systems Integration include the infrastructure related to customized radio networks and video solutions and the implementation and integration associated with the systems. Systems and Systems Integration represented 35% of the net sales of the Products and Systems Integration segment in 2019.

Software and Services Segment

As of December 31, 2019, we changed the name of the "Services and Software" segment to "Software and Services." The change is to the name only and no other financial information has been reclassified from previous periods presented or for the year ended December 31, 2019.

The Software and Services segment provides a broad range of solutions for government, public safety and commercial customers. In 2019, the segment’s net sales were $2.6 billion, representing 32% of our consolidated net sales. The Software and Services segment has the following principal product lines:

Software: Software includes a public safety and enterprise command center software suite, unified communications applications, and video software solutions, delivered both on-premise and “as a service” and represented 26% of the net sales of the Software and Services segment in 2019.

Services: Services includes a continuum of service offerings beginning with repair, technical support, and maintenance. More advanced offerings include monitoring, software updates, and cybersecurity services. Managed services range from partial or full operation of customer-owned networks to operation of Motorola Solutions-owned networks. Services represented 74% of the net sales of the Software and Services segment in 2019.

Strategy and Focus Areas

We offer comprehensive solutions in mission critical communications, command center software and video security and analytics, bolstered by managed and support services that help our customers work safely and efficiently. These solutions are designed to be "purpose-built" for the unique needs of our customers, which include customers in the government, public safety and commercial verticals.

Our strategy for long-term growth and the evolution of our business includes organic and inorganic investments in the following four areas: 

3

(i)Innovation in a standards-based mission critical voice and data solutions market, which is made up of LMR and Long-Term Evolution ("LTE") technologies. Our dedication, focus, and innovation for public safety and commercial solutions built the foundation of our LMR business, which is reflected in an install base of over 13,000 systems deployed in 100+ countries around the world. These systems often have multi-year or multi-decade life spans that help drive demand for additional device sales, software upgrades, infrastructure refresh and expansion, as well as additional services to maintain, monitor and manage these complex networks and solutions. We believe our government, public safety and commercial customers will continue to require next-generation systems, enhanced software features and analytics, as well as incremental services to drive operational efficiencies. 

(ii)Service offerings that leverage our large global install base and allow our customers to improve performance across their systems, devices and applications for greater safety and productivity. Our comprehensive suite of services, ranging from repair, technical support, security and system monitoring to operation of customer-owned networks or Motorola Solutions-owned networks, ensures continuity and reduces risks for continued critical communications operations. Today, agency procurement models are primarily capital expenditure investments in customer-owned and operated solutions with long-term contracts. As communication networks have become increasingly complex, software-centric and data-driven, we have expanded our services offerings and accordingly, we expect the deeper penetration of service sales into existing LMR customers to be a driver in our Services business growth. 

(iii)Video analytics, network video management software and hardware, video cameras, and access control solutions for government and commercial customers. We have video solutions installed at thousands of customer sites, including school campuses, transportation systems, healthcare centers, public venues, critical infrastructure, prisons, factories, casinos, airports, financial institutions, government facilities, and retailers. We have invested in go-to-market resources to increase coverage and drive share gains in the video market. In addition, our strategy is to utilize the relationships we have as a leader in mission critical communications to expand our video security offerings further in the government and public safety verticals. 

(iv) Command center software solutions to support public safety workflow from calling 9-1-1 and dispatching first responders to communicating with personnel in the field and managing records and evidence. Today, the public safety workflow is addressed by a variety of point solutions. We have built an end-to-end command center software offering that provides a unified suite of solutions across the public safety workflow which differentiates us from much of the competition. As the public safety market continues to embrace software offerings to enhance their workflows, we are able to sell cloud-based software as a service ("SaaS") offerings in addition to on-premise solutions with ancillary implementation and managed services.

Our Customers and Contracts

We serve government agencies, state and local public safety and first-responder agencies, as well as commercial and industrial customers. Our customer base is fragmented and widespread when considering the many levels of governmental and first-responder decision-makers that procure and use our products and services. Serving this global customer base spanning federal, state, county, province, territory, municipal, and departmental independent bodies, along with our commercial and industrial customers, requires a significant go-to-market investment.

Our sales model includes both direct sales by our in-house sales force, which tend to focus on our largest accounts, and sales through our channel partner program. Our trained channel partners include independent dealers, distributors, and software vendors around the world. The dealers and distributors each have their own sales organizations that complement and extend the reach of our sales force. The independent software vendors offer customized applications that meet specific needs in the verticals we serve.

Our largest customers are the U.S. government (through multiple contracts with its various branches and agencies, including the armed services) and the Home Office of the United Kingdom, representing approximately 9% and 8% of our consolidated net sales in 2019, respectively. The loss of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings over several quarters as many of our contracts with these governments are long-term in nature. All contracts with the U.S. government, and certain other government agencies within the U.S., are subject to cancellation at the customer’s convenience. For a discussion of risks related to government contracting requirements, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Payment terms with our customers vary worldwide. Generally, contractual payment terms range from 30 to 45 days from the invoice date within North America and typically do not exceed 90 days from the invoice date in regions outside of North America. A portion of our contracts include implementation milestones, such as delivery, installation, and system acceptance, which generally take 30 to 180 days to complete. Invoicing the customer is dependent on completion of the milestones. We generally do not grant extended payment terms. As required for competitive reasons, we may provide long-term financing in connection with equipment purchases. Financing may cover all or a portion of the purchase price.

Generally, our contracts do not include a right of return, other than for standard warranty provisions. Due to customer purchasing patterns and the cyclical nature of the markets we serve, our sales tend to be somewhat higher in the second half of the year, with the fourth quarter being the highest.

Competition

The competitive landscape in each platform varies across the markets we serve. The mission critical communications platform has a high barrier to entry due to the technological standards and requirements driven by customers resulting in less competitive turnover. The command center software and video analytics and security markets have a lower barrier to entry due to the fewer technological requirements needed to enter the market. The command center software market has many competitors who provide point solutions for pieces of the command center workflow. The video and security market has become 

4

increasingly competitive as video technology has advanced, incorporating artificial intelligence and machine learning, which provide richer solutions to customers. Key competitive factors include: performance, features, quality, warranty, price, vendor financing, availability of service, company financial strength, partner community, and relationships with customers. Our strong reputation with customers and partners, trusted brand, technology leadership, breadth of portfolio, product performance, and specialized support services position us well for success.

We experience widespread competition from a growing number of existing and new competitors, including large system integrators and manufacturers of private and public wireless network equipment and devices. As demand for fully integrated voice, data, broadband systems and video solutions continues to grow, we may face additional competition from public telecommunications carriers and telecommunications equipment providers to small video solutions start-ups. 

As we continue to evolve our services strategy, we may subcontract work to other companies to fulfill customer needs in geographical areas that we do not have coverage or additional services that we do not provide. 

Some of our major competitors within LMR, command center software, and video security are below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5

Other Information

Backlog

Our backlog includes orders that have been received and are believed to be firm. As of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our backlog was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Approximately 47% of the Products and Systems Integration segment backlog and 21% of the Software and Services segment backlog is expected to be recognized as revenue during 2020. The firmness of such orders is subject to future events that may cause the amount recognized to change.

Recent Acquisitions

On October 16, 2019, we acquired a data solutions business for vehicle location information for a purchase price of $85 million, net of cash acquired. The acquisition enhances our video security platform by adding data to our existing license plate recognition (“LPR”) database within our Software and Services segment. 

On July 11, 2019, we acquired WatchGuard, Inc. ("WatchGuard"), a provider of in-car and body-worn video solutions for $271 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $16 million that will be expensed over an average service period of two years. The acquisition was settled with $250 million of cash, net of cash acquired. The acquisition expands our video security platform within both the Product and Systems Integration segment and the Software and Services segment.

On March 11, 2019, we acquired Avtec, Inc. ("Avtec"), a provider of dispatch communications for U.S. public safety and commercial customers for a purchase price of $136 million in cash, net of cash acquired. This acquisition expands our commercial portfolio with new capabilities, allowing us to offer an enhanced platform for customers to communicate, coordinate resources and secure their facilities. The business is part of both the Product and Systems Integration segment and the Software and Services segment.

On January 7, 2019, we announced that we acquired VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location for $445 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $38 million that will be expensed over an average service period of one year. The acquisition was settled with $231 million of cash, net of cash acquired, and 1.4 million of shares issued at a fair value of $160 million for a purchase price of $391 million. This acquisition expands our video security platform within both the Product and Systems Integration segment and the Software and Services segment.

On March 28, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation ("Avigilon"), a provider of advanced security and video solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, video cameras and access control solutions, for a purchase price of $974 million. The acquisition expands our video security platform within both the Product and Systems Integration segment and the Software and Services segment.

On March 7, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc. ("Plant"), the parent company of Airbus DS Communications, for a purchase price of $237 million. This acquisition expands our command center software portfolio with additional solutions for next generation 9-1-1 within our Software and Services segment.

On August 28, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Kodiak Networks, a provider of broadband push-to-talk for commercial customers, for a purchase price of $225 million. The business is part of the Software and Services segment.

On March 13, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Interexport, a managed service provider of communications systems to public safety and commercial customers in Chile, for a purchase price of 98 billion Chilean pesos, or approximately $147 million. The business is part of the Software and Services segment.

Research and Development

We continue to prioritize investments in R&D to expand and improve our products through both new product introductions and continuous enhancements to our core products. Our R&D programs are focused on the development of: (i) mission critical communications (ii) command center software and (iii) video security.

R&D expenditures were $687 million in 2019, $637 million in 2018, and $568 million in 2017. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 6,000 employees engaged in R&D activities. In addition, we engage in R&D activities with joint development and manufacturing partners and outsource certain activities to engineering firms to further supplement our internal spend. 

6

Intellectual Property Matters

Patent protection is an important aspect of our operations. We have a portfolio of U.S. and foreign utility and design patents relating to our products, systems, and technologies, including developments in radio frequency technology and circuits, wireless network technologies, over-the-air protocols, mission critical communications, software and services, video security and next-generation public safety. We also file new patent applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and foreign patent offices.

We license some of our patents to third-parties, but licensing is not a significant source of revenue for our business. We are also licensed to use certain patents owned by others. Royalty and licensing fees vary from year-to-year and are subject to the terms of the agreements and sales volumes of the products subject to the license. Motorola Solutions has a royalty-free license under all of the patents and patent applications assigned to Motorola Mobility at the time of the separation of the two businesses in 2011. 

We actively participate in the development of standards for interoperable, mission critical digital two-way radio systems. Our patents are used in standards in which our products and services are based. We offer standards-based licenses to those patents on fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory terms.

We believe that our patent portfolio will continue to provide us with a competitive advantage in our core product areas as well as provide leverage in the development of future technologies. While we are not dependent upon a single patent or even a few patents, we do have patents that protect features and functionality of our products and services. While these patents are important, our success also depends upon our extensive know-how, innovative culture, technological leadership, and distribution channels. We do not rely solely on patents or other intellectual property rights to protect or establish our market position; however, we will enforce our intellectual property rights when it is necessary to protect our innovation, or in some cases where attempts to negotiate mutually-agreeable licenses are not successful.

We seek to obtain patents, copyright registrations, and trademark registrations to protect our proprietary positions whenever possible and wherever practical. As of December 31, 2019, we owned approximately 5,700 granted patents in the U.S. and in foreign countries. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 1,475 U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. Foreign patents and patent applications are mostly counterparts of our U.S. patents. During 2019, we were granted approximately 575 patents in the U.S. and in foreign countries. 

We no longer own certain logos and other trademarks, trade names and service marks, including MOTOROLA, MOTO, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M logo and all derivatives thereof (“Motorola Marks”) and we license the Motorola Marks from Motorola Mobility, which is currently owned by Lenovo Group Limited.

7

Inventory and Raw Materials

Our practice is to carry reasonable amounts of inventory to meet customers delivery requirements. We provide custom products that require the stocking of inventories and a large variety of piece parts and replacement parts in order to meet delivery and warranty requirements. To the extent supplier product life cycles are shorter than ours, stocking of lifetime buy inventories is required to meet long-term warranty and contractual requirements. In addition, replacement parts are stocked for delivery on customer demand within a short delivery cycle.

Availability of required materials and components is generally dependable; however, fluctuations in supply and market demand could cause selective shortages and affect our results of operations. We currently procure certain materials and components from single-source vendors. In addition, we import materials and components that are subject to import duties, including tariffs in connection with products procured in China. The duties and tariffs we are subject to do not have a significant impact on our financial results. A material disruption from a single-source vendor may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. If certain single-source suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies, or an increase in the price of supplies, and adversely impact our financial results.

Natural gas, electricity and, to a lesser extent, oil are the primary sources of energy for our manufacturing operations. Each of these resources is currently in adequate supply for our operations. The cost to operate our facilities and freight costs are dependent on world oil prices and external third-party logistics rates for inbound and outbound air lanes. Labor is generally available in reasonable proximity to our manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our largest outsourced manufacturing suppliers. Difficulties in obtaining any of the aforementioned resources, or significant cost increases, could affect our financial results.

Environmental Quality 

Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local, and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air, and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites, as well as relating to the protection of the environment. Certain products of ours are subject to various federal, state, local, and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. During 2018, compliance with these U.S. federal, state and local, and international laws did not have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position; however, we recorded a $57 million charge once we became aware of additional remediation requirements for the designated Superfund site under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as the “Superfund Act”) incurred by a legacy business. 

Regulatory Matters

Radio spectrum is required to provide wireless voice, data, and video communications service. The allocation of spectrum is regulated in the U.S. and other countries and limited spectrum is allocated to wireless services and specifically to public safety users. We manufacture and market products in spectrum bands already allocated by regulatory bodies. These include voice and data infrastructure, mobile radios, and portable or hand-held devices. Consequently, our results could be positively or negatively affected by the rules and regulations adopted by regulatory agencies. Our products operate both on licensed and unlicensed spectrum. The availability of additional radio spectrum may provide new business opportunities. Conversely, the loss of available radio spectrum may result in the loss of business opportunities. Regulatory changes in current spectrum bands (e.g., the sharing of previously dedicated or other spectrum) may also provide opportunities or may require modifications to some of our products so they can continue to be manufactured and marketed. 

The U.S. federal government and many state and local governments have adopted or are considering laws or regulations governing the use of artificial intelligence, biometrics, facial recognition and license plate recognition technology, primarily based on concerns about privacy or bias. (References to privacy-related legislation or laws in this document encompass all of these technologies.) Similar laws and regulations are being considered in some countries outside the U.S. Based on growing demands for broadband, regulators continue to consider repurposing narrowband spectrum to broadband. There are calls for more stringent health and safety requirements for occupational equipment for public safety and commercial users. There is also increasing attention in the U.S. on supply chain vulnerabilities related to country of origin and national security. Our entrance into new service offerings could present new or additional regulatory burdens and compliance issues.

Employees 

At December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 we had approximately 17,000 and 16,000 employees, respectively.

Material Dispositions

None.

Financial Information About Geographic Areas 

The response to this section of Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 11, “Commitments and Contingencies” and Note 12, “Information by Segment and Geographic Region” of Part II, "Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this document, the “Results of Operations—2019 Compared to 2018” and “Results of Operations—2018 Compared to 2017” sections of Part II, “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 1A: Risk Factors” of this document.

8

Financial Information About Segments  

The response to this section of Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 12, “Information by Segment and Geographic Region,” of Part II, "Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this document.

Available Information

We make available free of charge through our website, www.motorolasolutions.com/investors, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, other reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and all amendments to those reports simultaneously or as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our reports are also available free of charge on the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov. Also available free of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents:

•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation with Amendments

•Conformed Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Motorola Solutions, Inc. (amended Jan. 4, 2011)

•Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Motorola, Inc. (effective Jan. 4, 2011)

•Certificate of Ownership and Merger of Motorola Name Change Corporation into Motorola, Inc. (effective Jan. 4, 2011)

•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws

•Board Governance Guidelines

•Director Independence Guidelines

•Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board of Directors

•Motorola Solutions Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola Solutions employees, including the principal executive officers, the principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer)

•Audit Committee Charter

•Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter

•Governance and Nominating Committee Charter

All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola Solutions, Inc., Corporate Offices, 500 W. Monroe Street, Chicago, IL 60661, E-mail: investors@motorolasolutions.com. This annual report on Form 10-K and Definitive Proxy Statement are available on the Internet at http://investors.motorolasolutions.com/AnnualReports and may also be requested in hardcopy by completing the on-line request form at the top of this page. Our internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

9

Item 1A: Risk Factors