ITEM 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition And Results of Operations 

The following discussion and analysis addresses material changes in the financial condition and results of operations of Mylan N.V. and subsidiaries for the periods presented. Unless context requires otherwise, the “Company,” “Mylan,” “our” or “we” refer to Mylan N.V. and its subsidiaries. 

This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our other SEC filings and public disclosures. 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements.” Such forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, statements about the Combination, the expected timetable for completing the Combination, the benefits and synergies of the Combination, future opportunities for the combined company and products and any other statements regarding Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s or the combined company’s future operations, financial or operating results, capital allocation, dividend policy, debt ratio, anticipated business levels, future earnings, planned activities, anticipated growth, market opportunities, strategies, competitions, and other expectations and targets for future periods. These may often be identified by the use of words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “project,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “plan,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “potential,” “pipeline,” “intend,” “continue,” “target,” “seek” and variations of these words or comparable words. 

Because forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: 

•with respect to the Combination, the parties’ ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the Combination, changes in relevant tax and other laws, the parties’ ability to consummate the Combination, the conditions to the completion of the Combination, including receipt of approval of Mylan’s shareholders, not being satisfied or waived on the anticipated timeframe or at all, the regulatory approvals required for the Combination not being obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule or at all, the integration of Mylan and the Upjohn Business being more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected, Mylan’s and the Upjohn Business’s failure to achieve expected or targeted future financial and operating performance and results, the possibility that the combined company may be unable to achieve expected benefits, synergies and operating efficiencies in connection with the Combination within the expected timeframes or at all or to successfully integrate Mylan and the Upjohn Business, customer loss and business disruption being greater than expected following the Combination, the retention of key employees being more difficult following the Combination, changes in third-party relationships and changes in the economic and financial conditions of the business of Mylan or the Upjohn Business;

•actions and decisions of healthcare and pharmaceutical regulators; 

•failure to achieve expected or targeted future financial and operating performance and results;

•uncertainties regarding future demand, pricing and reimbursement for our or the Upjohn Business’s products; 

•any regulatory, legal or other impediments to Mylan’s or the Upjohn Business’s ability to bring new products to market, including, but not limited to, where Mylan or the Upjohn Business uses its business judgment and decides to manufacture, market and/or sell products, directly or through third parties, notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent infringement(s) have not been finally resolved by the courts (i.e., an “at-risk launch”); 

•success of clinical trials and Mylan’s or the Upjohn Business’s ability to execute on new product opportunities; 

•any changes in or difficulties with our or the Upjohn Business’s manufacturing facilities, including with respect to remediation and restructuring activities, supply chain or inventory or the ability to meet anticipated demand; 

•the scope, timing and outcome of any ongoing legal proceedings, including government investigations, and the impact of any such proceedings on our or the Upjohn Business’s financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows; 

•the ability to meet expectations regarding the accounting and tax treatments of acquisitions; 

•changes in relevant tax and other laws, including but not limited to changes in the U.S. tax code and healthcare and pharmaceutical laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad; 

•any significant breach of data security or data privacy or disruptions to our or the Upjohn Business’s IT systems; 

•the ability to protect intellectual property and preserve intellectual property rights; 

•the effect of any changes in customer and supplier relationships and customer purchasing patterns; 

•the ability to attract and retain key personnel; 

44
•the impact of competition; 

•identifying, acquiring and integrating complementary or strategic acquisitions of other companies, products or assets being more difficult, time-consuming or costly than anticipated; 

•the possibility that Mylan may be unable to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in connection with business transformation initiatives, strategic acquisitions, strategic initiatives or restructuring programs within the expected timeframes or at all; 

•uncertainties and matters beyond the control of management, including but not limited to general political and economic conditions and global exchange rates; and 

•inherent uncertainties involved in the estimates and judgments used in the preparation of financial statements, and the providing of estimates of financial measures, in accordance with U.S. GAAP and related standards or on an adjusted basis. 

For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with Mylan’s business activities, see the risks described in Item 1A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, and our other filings with the SEC. These risks, as well as other risks associated with Mylan, the Upjohn Business, the combined company and the Combination are also more fully discussed in the registration statement on Form S-4, which has been filed by Upjohn with the SEC and subsequently amended , and declared effective on February 13, 2020, Form 10, which has been filed by Upjohn with the SEC and subsequently amended and has not yet been declared effective, and a definitive proxy statement of Mylan, which has been filed by Mylan on February 13, 2020.

You can access Mylan’s filings with the SEC through the SEC website at www.sec.gov or through our website, and Mylan strongly encourages you to do so. Mylan routinely posts information that may be important to investors on our website at investor.mylan.com, and we use this website address as a means of disclosing material information to the public in a broad, non-exclusionary manner for purposes of the SEC’s Regulation Fair Disclosure (Reg FD). 

The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and shall not be deemed “filed” under the Exchange Act. 

Mylan undertakes no obligation to update any statements herein for revisions or changes after the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K other than as required by law. 

Company Overview

Mylan is a global pharmaceutical company committed to setting new standards in healthcare and providing 7 billion people access to high quality medicine. We offer a portfolio of more than 7,500 products, including prescription generic, branded generic, brand-name drugs and OTC remedies. We market our products in more than 165 countries and territories. Every member of our approximately 35,000-strong global workforce is dedicated to delivering better health for a better world.

Over the last several years, Mylan has transformed itself through a clear, consistent and differentiated strategy into a company that is built to last. Fueling that durability is a business model anchored in providing access, Mylan’s core purpose.

Providing access requires that we satisfy the needs of an incredibly diverse global marketplace whose economic and political systems, approaches to delivering and paying for healthcare, languages and traditions, and customer and patient requirements vary by location and over time.

With these considerations in mind, we built and scaled our commercial, operational and scientific platforms to meet customers’ evolving needs in ways that are globally consistent and locally sensitive. As a result, not only are we succeeding in expanding people’s access to medicine, we are continually diversifying our business.

That diversification is what drives our durability. Durability allows us to withstand and overcome competitive pressures while continuing to innovate. It also allows us to generate consistent financial results, including reliable cash flows capable of supporting ongoing investments in long-term growth.

Certain Market and Industry Factors

The global pharmaceutical industry is a highly competitive and highly regulated industry. As a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. The following discussion highlights some of these key factors and market conditions.

45
Generic products, particularly in the U.S., generally contribute most significantly to revenues and gross margins at the time of their launch, and even more so in periods of market exclusivity, or in periods of limited generic competition. As such, the timing of new product introductions can have a significant impact on the Company’s financial results. The entrance into the market of additional competition generally has a negative impact on the volume and pricing of the affected products. Additionally, pricing is often affected by factors outside of the Company’s control.

For branded products, the majority of the product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there can often be very substantial and rapid declines in the branded product’s sales. OTC products also participate in a competitive environment that includes both branded and private label products. In the OTC space, value is realized through innovation, access and consumer activation. 

Certain markets in which we do business outside of the U.S. have undergone government-imposed price reductions, and further government-imposed price reductions are expected in the future. Such measures, along with the tender systems discussed below, are likely to have a negative impact on sales and gross profit in these markets. However, government initiatives in certain markets that appear to favor generic products could help to mitigate this unfavorable effect by increasing rates of generic substitution and penetration. 

Additionally, a number of markets in which we operate outside of the U.S. have implemented, or may implement, tender systems for generic pharmaceuticals in an effort to lower prices. Generally speaking, tender systems can have an unfavorable impact on sales and profitability. Under such tender systems, manufacturers submit bids that establish prices for generic pharmaceutical products. Upon winning the tender, the winning company will receive priority placement for a period of time. The tender system often results in companies underbidding one another by proposing low pricing in order to win the tender. The loss of a tender by a third party to whom we supply API can also have a negative impact on our sales and profitability. Sales continue to be negatively affected by the impact of tender systems in certain countries.

Recent Developments

2020 Restructuring Program

On February 27, 2020, the Company announced that it has formalized the next steps in its efforts to sustain long-term value creation through the proactive transformation of its business. This transformation initiative includes a new global restructuring program. The program is intended to support the Company’s effort to improve operating performance and meet anticipated market demands, by ensuring that the Company is appropriately structured and resourced to deliver sustainable value to customers, patients, other stakeholders and shareholders. Key activities under the program include supply chain network optimization intended to maximize the efficiency of the Company’s global manufacturing and distribution network capacity and further optimizing functional capabilities that support business growth.

The Company is currently developing the details of the initiatives, including workforce actions and other restructuring activities. Further details will be disclosed as plans are finalized, including the estimated amount or range of amounts to be incurred by major cost type and future cash expenditures associated with those initiatives.

Upjohn Business Combination Agreement

On July 29, 2019, the Company, Pfizer, Upjohn, and certain other affiliated entities entered into the Business Combination Agreement pursuant to which the Company will combine with Pfizer’s Upjohn Business in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction (the “Combination”). Newco, which will be the parent entity of the combined Upjohn Business and Mylan business, will be renamed “Viatris” effective as of the closing of the Combination. The Upjohn Business is a global, primarily off-patent branded and generic established medicines business, which includes 20 primarily off-patent solid oral dose legacy brands, such as Lyrica, Lipitor, Celebrex and Viagra.

Prior to the Combination and pursuant to a Separation and Distribution Agreement (the “Separation Agreement”), dated as of July 29, 2019, between Pfizer and Newco, Pfizer will, among other things, transfer to Newco substantially all of the assets and liabilities comprising the Upjohn Business (the “Separation”) and, thereafter, Pfizer will distribute to Pfizer stockholders all of the issued and outstanding shares of Newco (the “Distribution”). When the Distribution and Combination are completed, Pfizer stockholders as of the record date of the Distribution will own 57% of the outstanding shares of Newco common stock, and Mylan shareholders as of immediately before the Combination will own 43% of the outstanding shares of Newco common stock, in each case on a fully diluted basis. Newco will make a cash payment to Pfizer equal to $12 billion, to 

46
be funded with the proceeds of debt to be incurred by Newco in connection with the foregoing transactions, as partial consideration for the contribution of the Upjohn Business from Pfizer to Newco.

Newco has obtained commitments for the initial financing of the transaction in the form of a bridge loan from certain financial institutions. If Newco obtains additional funding by issuing securities or obtaining other loans, the amount of the bridge facility will be correspondingly reduced. The bridge loan is subject to customary terms and conditions including a financial covenant.

 The consummation of the Combination is subject to the satisfaction (or, if applicable, valid waiver) of various conditions, including (a) the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the HSR Act and the receipt of regulatory approvals in certain other jurisdictions, (b) the consummation of the Separation and the Distribution in accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, (c) the approval of the Combination by Mylan shareholders, (d) the absence of any legal restraint (including legal actions or proceedings pursued by U.S. state authorities in the relevant states) preventing the consummation of the transactions, (e) in the case of Pfizer’s and Newco’s obligations to consummate the transactions, (i) the distribution of $12 billion in cash from Upjohn to Pfizer in accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement and (ii) the receipt by Pfizer of an IRS ruling and tax opinion of its tax counsel with respect to the Combination, and (f) other customary closing conditions.

2016 Restructuring Program 

The Company previously announced a restructuring program representing a series of actions in certain locations that are anticipated to further streamline our operations globally. The restructuring program, other than the additional restructuring and remediation activities at the Morgantown, West Virginia plant described below, was substantially complete as of December 31, 2018. We have incurred total restructuring related costs of approximately $682.5 million through December 31, 2019. During 2019, we have incurred approximately $88.9 million in restructuring expenses for non-cash asset write-offs at the Morgantown plant. 

In April 2018, the FDA completed an inspection at Mylan’s plant in Morgantown, West Virginia and made observations through a Form 483. The Company submitted a comprehensive response to the FDA and committed to a robust improvement plan. In addition, based upon the Company’s recognition of the continued evolution of industry dynamics and regulatory expectations, during the second quarter of 2018, the Company commenced comprehensive restructuring and remediation activities, which are aimed at reducing complexity at the Morgantown plant and include the discontinuation and transfer to other manufacturing sites of a number of products, a reduction of the workforce and extensive process and plant remediation. In the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company received a warning letter related to the previously disclosed observations at the plant. The issues raised in the warning letter are being addressed within the context of the Company’s comprehensive restructuring and remediation activities.

The Morgantown plant continues to supply products for the U.S. market while we execute on and assess the restructuring and remediation activities. However, these activities have led to an inconsistent supply of certain products. Importantly, the profitability of the transferred and discontinued products is not proportionate to the reduced volumes of those products as the Company expects that manufacturing costs related to transferred products will be reduced and many of the discontinued products have lower than average gross margins. In addition, as it relates to North America, no significant new product revenue is forecasted from the Morgantown plant in 2020, and only three of our top 50 and only one out of the top 10 gross margin generating products were manufactured in Morgantown in 2019.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company incurred expenses amounting to approximately $299.5 million for incremental manufacturing variances, site remediation, and restructuring charges related to the Morgantown plant, as well as continued product rationalization. At this time, the total expenses related to the additional restructuring and remediation activities at the Morgantown plant cannot be reasonably estimated.

Mylan remains committed to maintaining the highest quality manufacturing standards at its facilities around the world and to continuous assessment and improvement in a time of evolving industry dynamics and regulatory expectations.

Other Developments

On January 30, 2019, the Company received FDA approval of the WixelaTM InhubTM (fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder, USP), the first generic of GlaxoSmithKline’s Advair Diskus®. The commercial launch of the WixelaTM InhubTM occurred in February 2019. 

47
In addition, on December 2, 2019, the Company launched Ogivri™ (trastuzumab-dkst), a biosimilar to Herceptin® (trastuzumab). Ogivri was the first biosimilar trastuzumab approved by the FDA and unanimously recommended by the FDA Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee.

Financial Summary

The table below is a summary of the Company’s financial results for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year period:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A detailed discussion of the Company’s financial results can be found below in the section titled “Results of Operations.” As part of this discussion, we also report sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measures of “constant currency” net sales and total revenues. These measures provide information on the change in net sales and total revenues assuming that foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior and current period. The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect comparative local currency sales at the prior year’s foreign exchange rates. We routinely evaluate our net sales and total revenues performance at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating a period-to-period comparison of our operational activities, and believe that this presentation also provides useful information to investors for the same reason.

More information about non-GAAP measures used by the Company as part of this discussion, including adjusted cost of sales, adjusted gross margins, adjusted net earnings, and adjusted EPS (all of which are defined below) are discussed further in this Item 7 under Results of Operations and Results of Operations — Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.

Results of Operations

2019 Compared to 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________

(1) Currency impact is shown as unfavorable (favorable).

(2) The constant currency percentage change is derived by translating net sales or revenues for the current period at prior year comparative period exchange rates, and in doing so shows the percentage change from 2019 constant currency net sales or revenues to the corresponding amount in the prior year.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

48
(4) Amounts exclude intersegment revenue that eliminates on a consolidated basis.

Total Revenues

For the year ended December 31, 2019, Mylan reported total revenues of $11.50 billion, compared to $11.43 billion for the comparable prior year period, representing an increase of $66.6 million, or 1%. Total revenues include both net sales and other revenues from third parties. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2019 were $11.37 billion, compared to $11.27 billion for the comparable prior year period, representing an increase of $101.6 million, or 1%. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 were $130.2 million, compared to $165.2 million for the comparable prior year period, a decrease of $35.0 million.

The increase in net sales was primarily the result of an increase in net sales in the Rest of World segment of 5% and the North America segment of 2%, partially offset by a decrease in the Europe segment of 3%. Mylan’s net sales were unfavorably impacted by the effect of foreign currency translation, primarily reflecting changes in the U.S. Dollar as compared to the currencies of Mylan’s subsidiaries in the European Union, Australia and India. The unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation on current year net sales was approximately $322.4 million, or 3%. On a constant currency basis, the increase in net sales was approximately $424.0 million, or 4% for the year ended December 31, 2019. This increase was driven by new product sales, partially offset by a decrease in net sales from existing products as a result of lower pricing and volumes.

From time to time, a limited number of our products may represent a significant portion of our net sales, gross profit and net earnings. Generally, this is due to the timing of new product introductions and the amount, if any, of additional competition in the market. Our top ten products in terms of net sales, in the aggregate, represented approximately 23% and 20% for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Net sales are derived from our three geographic reporting segments: North America, Europe and Rest of World. The graph below shows net sales by segment for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 and the net change period over period:

North America Segment

Net sales from North America increased by $68.5 million or 2% during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the prior year. This increase was due primarily to new product sales, including the WixelaTM InhubTM, Fulphila® (biosimilar to Neulasta®) and YUPELRITM. This increase was partially offset by lower volumes, and to a lesser extent, pricing of existing products, driven by changes in the competitive environment and continued portfolio rationalization. The impact of foreign currency translation on current period net sales was insignificant within North America.

Europe Segment

Net sales from Europe decreased by $120.2 million or 3% for the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the prior year. This decrease was the result of the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of approximately $223.7 million, or 5%. Partially offsetting this decrease were new product sales and higher net sales of existing products which were driven by higher volumes partially offset by lower pricing. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $103.5 million, or 2% when compared to the prior year. 

49
Rest of World Segment

Net sales from Rest of World increased by $153.3 million or 5% for the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the prior year. This increase was the result of higher net sales of existing products and new product sales. The increase to net sales of existing products was driven by higher volumes primarily in China, Japan, certain emerging markets and from the Company’s ARV franchise. The increase in net sales as a result of new products was primarily due to new product sales in Australia, certain emerging markets and from the Company’s ARV franchise. The increase in net sales was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of $93.3 million, or 3%, and to a lesser extent by lower pricing on existing products. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $246.6 million, or 8%. 

Cost of Sales and Gross Profit

Cost of sales increased from $7.43 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 to $7.60 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019. Cost of sales was primarily impacted by purchase accounting related amortization of acquired intangible assets and other special items, which are described further in the section titled Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $3.90 billion and gross margins were 34%. For the year ended December 31, 2018, gross profit was $4.00 billion and gross margins were 35%. Gross margins were negatively impacted by the decline in sales of existing products by approximately 550 basis points. The decline in sales of existing products was primarily in North America and includes the impacts of product rationalization. Partially offsetting this impact, gross margins were positively impacted by approximately 500 basis points due to new product introductions primarily in North America. Adjusted gross margins were approximately 53% and 54% for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Adjusted gross margins were negatively impacted by lower gross profit from sales of existing products partially offset by gross margins on new product introductions primarily in North America.

A reconciliation between cost of sales, as reported under U.S. GAAP, and adjusted cost of sales and adjusted gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________

(a) Adjusted gross profit is calculated as total revenues less adjusted cost of sales. Adjusted gross margin is calculated as adjusted gross profit divided by total revenues.

Operating Expenses

Research & Development Expense

R&D expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $639.9 million, compared to $704.5 million for the prior year, a decrease of $64.6 million. This decrease was primarily due to lower expenditures related to the reprioritization of global programs and lower restructuring related costs.

50
Selling, General & Administrative Expense

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $2.56 billion, compared to $2.44 billion for the prior year, an increase of $122.6 million. The increase was primarily due to an increase of approximately $82.5 million for consulting fees and other expenses primarily related to the pending Combination in addition to increased investment in selling and marketing activities. Also contributing to the increase was higher share-based compensation expense of approximately $60.7 million as a result of the reversal of all of the cumulative expense related to certain performance-based awards totaling $70.6 million in the prior year. Partially offsetting these increases was bad debt expense of approximately $26.5 million incurred in the prior year related to a special business interruption event for one customer and $20.0 million of compensation expense for an additional discretionary bonus for a certain group of employees in the prior year. None of the employees who received the 2018 discretionary bonus were named executive officers. 

Litigation Settlements and Other Contingencies, Net

During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company recorded a net gain of $21.4 million for litigation settlements and other contingencies, net, compared to $49.5 million in the prior year.

 The following table includes the (gains) / losses recognized in litigation settlements and other contingencies, net during the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company recognized a net gain in litigation settlements of approximately $1.0 million. This net gain was primarily due to a favorable litigation settlement related to the Celgene Corporation matter of $62.0 million, which was partially offset by litigation related charges for settlements reached during the year. Charges for litigation related matters included $18.0 million for the modafinil antitrust matter and $30.0 million for the settlement with the SEC. In addition, a $20.4 million gain was recognized for the reduction of contingent consideration related to the acquisition of the exclusive worldwide rights to develop, manufacture and commercialize a generic equivalent to GlaxoSmithKline’s Advair® Diskus incorporating Pfizer’s respiratory delivery platform. 

Litigation settlements for the year ended December 31, 2018 consisted primarily of a gain of approximately $22.9 million related to a favorable litigation settlement, which was partially offset by litigation related charges of approximately $14.9 million related to an antitrust and a patent infringement matter. In addition, a $44.0 million gain was recognized for the change in value of contingent consideration related to the respiratory delivery platform, which was partially offset by losses incurred on other contingent consideration.

Interest Expense

Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 totaled $517.3 million, compared to $542.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, a decrease of $25.0 million. The decrease is primarily due to lower average long-term debt balances during the current year.

51
Other Expense, Net 

Other expense, net, was $43.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to other expense, net of $64.9 million for the prior year. Other expense (income), net includes losses from equity affiliates, foreign exchange gains and losses, and interest and dividend income. Other expense (income), net was comprised of the following for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income Tax Provision (Benefit)

For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company recognized an income tax provision of $137.6 million, compared to an income tax benefit of $54.1 million for the comparable prior year, an increase of $191.7 million. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we reached an agreement in principle with the IRS to resolve all issues relating to our positions on the EPD Business acquisition. As a result, the Company recorded a reserve of approximately $155.0 million as part of its liability for uncertain tax positions, with a net impact to the income tax provision of approximately $144.9 million. The tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2018 included a net benefit to the income tax provision of approximately $53.0 million as a result of the federal and state audits and settlements and expirations of certain state, federal, and foreign statutes of limitations. Partially offsetting this benefit was an increase in the reserve for uncertain tax benefits of approximately $18.0 million for certain other matters. Also impacting the current and prior year income tax provision and benefit, respectively, was the changing mix of income earned in jurisdictions with differing tax rates.

2018 Compared to 2017 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________

(1) Currency impact is shown as unfavorable (favorable).

(2) The constant currency percentage change is derived by translating net sales or revenues for the current period at prior year comparative period exchange rates, and in doing so shows the percentage change from 2018 constant currency net sales or revenues to the corresponding amount in the prior year.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4) Amounts exclude intersegment revenue that eliminates on a consolidated basis.

52
Total Revenues 

For the year ended December 31, 2018, Mylan reported total revenues of $11.43 billion compared to $11.91 billion for the comparable prior year period, representing a decrease of $473.8 million, or 4%. Total revenues include both net sales and other revenues from third parties. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2018 were $11.27 billion, compared to $11.76 billion for the comparable prior year period, representing a decrease of $491.3 million, or 4%. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 were $165.2 million, compared to $147.7 million for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $17.5 million. The increase in other revenues was primarily the result of consideration received from the licensing of intellectual property during the current year.

The decrease in net sales included a decrease in the North America segment of 18%. This decrease was partially offset by increases in the Europe segment of 5% and in the Rest of World segment of 7%. The overall decrease in net sales was primarily driven by a decrease in net sales from existing products. Net sales from existing products, partially offset by new product sales, decreased on a constant currency basis by approximately $443.6 million primarily as a result of lower volumes, and to a lesser extent, pricing. Net sales were also negatively impacted by approximately $104.5 million due to the adoption of new accounting standards. Mylan’s net sales were favorably impacted by the effect of foreign currency translation, primarily reflecting changes in the U.S. Dollar as compared to the currencies of Mylan’s subsidiaries in the EU, which was partially offset by the unfavorable impact from changes in the Indian Rupee and the Australian Dollar. The favorable impact of foreign currency translation on current year net sales was approximately $56.7 million resulting in a decrease in constant currency net sales of approximately $548.0 million, or 5%.

From time to time, a limited number of our products may represent a significant portion of our net sales, gross profit and net earnings. Generally, this is due to the timing of new product introductions and the amount, if any, of additional competition in the market. Our top ten products in terms of net sales, in the aggregate, represented approximately 20% and 21% for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Net sales are derived from our three geographic reporting segments: North America, Europe and Rest of World. The graph below shows net sales by segment for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 and the net change period over period.

North America Segment 

Net sales from North America decreased by $874.0 million or 18% during the year ended December 31, 2018 when compared to the prior year. This decrease was due primarily to lower volumes on existing products, including the EpiPen® Auto-Injector, partially offset by new product sales. The decline in volumes was primarily driven by the divestiture of certain contract manufacturing assets, the loss of exclusivity of certain products, actions associated with the restructuring and remediation activities at the Morgantown manufacturing plant and the timing of purchases of our products by customers. In addition, net sales were negatively impacted by $149.7 million related to the implementation of new accounting standards. Pricing also declined when compared to the prior year. The impact of foreign currency translation on current period net sales was insignificant within North America. 

Europe Segment

Net sales from Europe increased by $199.0 million or 5% for the year ended December 31, 2018 when compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily the result of the favorable impact of foreign currency translation, new product sales, and to a lesser extent, higher volumes of existing products. The favorable impact of foreign currency translation was 

53
approximately $144.5 million, or 4%. Partially offsetting these items was lower pricing on existing products. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $54.5 million, or 1% when compared to the prior year. 

Rest of World Segment

Net sales from Rest of World increased by $183.7 million or 7% for the year ended December 31, 2018 when compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily the result of new product sales, and to a lesser extent, higher volumes of existing products including higher sales of key brands in China. The increase in net sales as a result of new products was primarily due to new product sales from the Company’s ARV franchise combined with new product sales in Australia, Japan, and China. The increase in net sales was partially offset by lower pricing on existing products and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. Overall, net sales from Rest of World were unfavorably impacted by the effect of foreign currency translation of approximately $88.6 million, or 3%. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $272.3 million, or 10%.

Cost of Sales and Gross Profit

Cost of sales increased from $7.12 billion for the year ended December 31, 2017 to $7.43 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. Cost of sales was primarily impacted by purchase accounting related amortization of acquired intangible assets, and other special items, which are described further in the section titled Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $4.00 billion and gross margins were 35%. For the year ended December 31, 2017, gross profit was $4.78 billion and gross margins were 40%. Gross margins were negatively impacted by approximately 270 basis points related to the incremental amortization from product acquisitions and intangible asset impairment charges. Gross margins were also negatively affected by approximately 220 basis points as a result of incremental manufacturing expenses, site remediation expenses and incremental restructuring charges incurred during the year principally as a result of the activities at the Company’s Morgantown plant. In addition, gross margins were negatively impacted as a result of lower gross profit from the sales of existing products partially offset by gross margins on new product introductions primarily in North America. Adjusted gross margins were approximately 54% for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. Adjusted gross margins were negatively impacted by lower gross profit from sales of existing products partially offset by gross margins on new product introductions primarily in North America.

54
A reconciliation between cost of sales, as reported under U.S. GAAP, and adjusted cost of sales and adjusted gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________

(a) Adjusted gross profit is calculated as total revenues less adjusted cost of sales. Adjusted gross margin is calculated as adjusted gross profit divided by total revenues.

Operating Expenses

Research & Development Expense

R&D expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $704.5 million, compared to $783.3 million for the prior year, a decrease of $78.8 million. This decrease was primarily due to lower expenditures related to the Company’s respiratory programs and lower expenses due to the reprioritization of global programs.

Selling, General & Administrative Expense

SG&A expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $2.44 billion, compared to $2.58 billion for the prior year, a decrease of $134.7 million. The decrease is primarily due to the benefits of integration activities, lower restructuring charges, lower acquisition-related costs of approximately $48.0 million, and reduced share-based compensation expense primarily due to the reversal of all of the cumulative expense totaling $70.6 million related to the Company’s One-Time Special Performance-Based Five-Year Realizable Value Incentive Program during the year ended December 31, 2018. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in bad debt expense of approximately $26.5 million related to a special business interruption event for one customer, and $20.0 million of compensation expense as an additional discretionary bonus for a certain group of employees. None of the employees eligible for this bonus are named executive officers.

55
Litigation Settlements and Other Contingencies, Net

During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded a net gain of $49.5 million for litigation settlements and other contingencies, net, compared to $13.1 million in the prior year. 

The following table includes the losses/(gains) recognized in litigation settlements and other contingencies, net during the year ended December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 The following table includes the losses/(gains) recognized in litigation settlements and other contingencies, net during the year ended December 31, 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest Expense

Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 totaled $542.3 million, compared to $534.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, an increase of $7.7 million. The increase is due to slightly higher average interest rates on debt issued in 2018 when compared to the debt instruments redeemed during 2018, which was partially offset by the impact of lower average long-term balances during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year. 

Other Expense (Income), Net 

Other expense, net was $64.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to net other income of $0.4 million for the prior year. Other expense (income), net includes losses from equity affiliates, foreign exchange gains and losses, and interest and dividend income. Other expense (income), net was comprised of the following for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income Tax (Benefit) Provision

For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recognized an income tax benefit of $54.1 million, compared to an income tax provision of $207.0 million for the comparable prior year. During the year ended December 31, 2018, a tax benefit of $65.7 million was recorded as a result of the Company’s settlement of certain federal and state audits. The tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2017 included a provisional net tax charge of $128.6 million related to the December 2017 U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”). Also impacting the income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2018 versus the prior year was the changing mix of income earned in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, 

56
increases in valuation allowances on certain carryforward tax attributes, and the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities in countries that changed their statutory corporate tax rate.

Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Whenever the Company uses non-GAAP financial measures, we provide a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Investors and other readers are encouraged to review the related U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure and should consider non-GAAP measures only as a supplement to, not as a substitute for or as a superior measure to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Additionally, since these are not measures determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, non-GAAP financial measures have no standardized meaning across companies, or as prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures or measures with the same title used by other companies.

Management uses these measures internally for forecasting, budgeting, measuring its operating performance, and incentive-based awards. Primarily due to acquisitions and other significant events which may impact comparability of our periodic operating results, we believe that an evaluation of our ongoing operations (and comparisons of our current operations with historical and future operations) would be difficult if the disclosure of our financial results was limited to financial measures prepared only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We believe that non-GAAP financial measures are useful supplemental information for our investors and when considered together with our U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure, provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting our operations. The financial performance of the Company is measured by senior management, in part, using adjusted metrics as described below, along with other performance metrics. Management’s annual incentive compensation is derived, in part, based on the adjusted EPS (as defined below) metric.

Adjusted Cost of Sales and Adjusted Gross Margin

We use the non-GAAP financial measure “adjusted cost of sales” and the corresponding non-GAAP financial measure “adjusted gross margin.” The principal items excluded from adjusted cost of sales include restructuring, acquisition related and other special items and purchase accounting amortization and other related items, which are described in greater detail below.

Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted EPS

Adjusted net earnings is a non-GAAP financial measure and provides an alternative view of performance used by management. Management believes that, primarily due to acquisition activity and other significant events, an evaluation of the Company’s ongoing operations (and comparisons of its current operations with historical and future operations) would be difficult if the disclosure of its financial results were limited to financial measures prepared only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management believes that adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per diluted share (“adjusted EPS”) are two of the most important internal financial metrics related to the ongoing operating performance of the Company, and are therefore useful to investors and that their understanding of our performance is enhanced by these adjusted measures. Actual internal and forecasted operating results and annual budgets used by management include adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS.

The significant items excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS include:

Purchase Accounting Amortization and Other Related Items

The ongoing impact of certain amounts recorded in connection with acquisitions of both businesses and assets is excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS. These amounts include the amortization of intangible assets, inventory step-up and intangible asset impairment charges, including IPR&D. For the acquisition of businesses accounted for under the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 805, these purchase accounting impacts are excluded regardless of the financing method used for the acquisitions, including the use of cash, long-term debt, the issuance of ordinary shares, contingent consideration or any combination thereof.

Upfront and Milestone-Related R&D Expenses

These expenses and payments are excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS because they generally occur at irregular intervals and are not indicative of the Company’s ongoing operations.

57
Accretion of Contingent Consideration Liability and Other Fair Value Adjustments

The impact of changes to the fair value of contingent consideration and accretion expense are excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS because they are not indicative of the Company’s ongoing operations due to the variability of the amounts and the lack of predictability as to the occurrence and/or timing and management believes their exclusion is helpful to understanding the underlying, ongoing operational performance of the business.

Share-based Compensation

Beginning in 2019, share-based compensation expense is excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS. Our share-based compensation programs have become increasingly weighted toward performance-based compensation, which leads to variability and to a lack of predictability as to the occurrence and/or timing of amounts incurred. As such, management believes the exclusion of such amounts on an ongoing basis is helpful to understanding the underlying operational performance of the business. The impact of share-based compensation was insignificant to the financial results for the year ended December 31, 2018 due primarily to this variability.

Restructuring, Acquisition Related and Other Special Items

Costs related to restructuring, acquisition and integration activities and other actions are excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS, as applicable. These amounts include items such as: 

•Costs related to formal restructuring programs and actions, including costs associated with facilities to be closed or divested, employee separation costs, impairment charges, accelerated depreciation, incremental manufacturing variances, equipment relocation costs and other restructuring related costs; 

•Certain acquisition related remediation and integration and planning costs, as well as other costs associated with acquisitions such as advisory and legal fees and certain financing related costs, and other business transformation and/or optimization initiatives, which are not part of a formal restructuring program, including employee separation and post-employment costs; 

•The pre-tax loss of the Company’s clean energy investments, whose activities qualify for income tax credits under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; only included in adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS is the net tax effect of the entity’s activities;

•The pre-tax mark-to-market gains and losses of the Company’s investments in marketable equity securities historically accounted for as available for sale securities; only included in adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS are cumulative realized gains and losses;

•Other costs, incurred from time to time, related to certain special events or activities that lead to gains or losses, including, but not limited to, incremental manufacturing variances, asset write-downs, or liability adjustments;

•Certain costs to further develop and optimize our global enterprise resource planning systems, operations and supply chain; and

•The impact of changes related to uncertain tax positions is excluded from adjusted net earnings. In addition, tax adjustments to adjusted earnings are recorded to present items on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS.

The Company has undertaken restructurings and other optimization initiatives of differing types, scope and amount during the covered periods and, therefore, these charges should not be considered non-recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS because it believes it is helpful to understanding the underlying, ongoing operational performance of the business.

Litigation Settlements, Net

Charges and gains related to legal matters, such as those discussed in Note 20 Litigation included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are generally excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS. Normal, ongoing defense costs of the Company made in the normal course of our business are not excluded.

58
Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Net Earnings to Adjusted Net Earnings and U.S. GAAP EPS to Adjusted EPS

A reconciliation between net earnings and diluted earnings per share, as reported under U.S. GAAP, and adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS for the periods shown follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________

Significant items for the year ended December 31, 2019 include the following:

(a) Acquisition related costs consist primarily of transaction costs including legal and consulting fees and integration activities. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2019 relates to transaction costs for the pending Combination.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(c) Beginning in 2019, share-based compensation expense is excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS. The full year impact for the year ended December 31, 2018 was insignificant. As such, the 2018 amount was not added back to U.S. GAAP net earnings.

(d) The year ended December 31, 2019 increased $140.9 million primarily due to $210.6 million for certain incremental manufacturing variances and site remediation activities as a result of the activities at the Company’s Morgantown plant, approximately $40.9 million for product recall costs including inventory write-offs, and charges related to the cancellation of a contract, each of which were higher during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year.

(e) Adjustments primarily relate to non-refundable payments related to development collaboration agreements.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our primary source of liquidity is net cash provided by operating activities, which was $1.80 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019. We believe that net cash provided by operating activities and available liquidity will continue to allow us to meet our needs for working capital, capital expenditures and interest and principal payments on debt obligations. Nevertheless, our ability to satisfy our working capital requirements and debt service obligations, or fund planned capital expenditures, will substantially depend upon our future operating performance (which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions), and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control.

59
Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $538.0 million to $1.80 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $2.34 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. Net cash provided by operating activities is derived from net earnings adjusted for non-cash operating items, gains and losses attributed to investing and financing activities and changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting from timing differences between the receipts and payments of cash, including changes in cash primarily reflecting the timing of cash collections from customers, payments to vendors and employees and tax payments in the ordinary course of business.

The net decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was principally due to the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

These items were partially offset by the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities was $525.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $1.21 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, a decrease of $685.0 million.

In 2019, significant items in investing activities included the following: 

60
•cash paid for acquisitions, net totaling approximately $148.7 million primarily related to payments to Novartis AG for the purchase of the worldwide rights to the TOBI Podhaler® and TOBI® solution global cystic fibrosis products;

•payments for product rights and other, net totaling approximately $192.8 million, primarily related to the acquisitions of intellectual property rights and marketing authorizations; 

•proceeds from the sale of assets of $28.0 million; and 

•capital expenditures, primarily for equipment and facilities, totaling approximately $213.2 million. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized, capital expenditures for the 2020 calendar year are expected to be approximately $300 million to $400 million.

In 2018, significant items in investing activities included the following:

•cash paid for acquisitions, net totaling approximately $65.9 million related to the deferred non-contingent purchase price for the acquisition of Apicore, Inc.;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•proceeds from the sale of certain assets during the year totaling approximately $29.3 million; and 

•capital expenditures, primarily for equipment and facilities, totaling approximately $252.1 million.

Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $1.17 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $1.09 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, an increase of $78.1 million. 

In 2019, significant items in financing activities included the following: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2018, significant items in financing activities included the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

61
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•net repayments of short-term borrowings of approximately $44.4 million; and[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Capital Resources 

Our cash and cash equivalents totaled $475.6 million at December 31, 2019, and the majority of these funds are held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. The Company anticipates having sufficient liquidity, including existing borrowing capacity under the 2018 Revolving Facility (which replaced the 2016 Revolving Facility on substantially identical terms) and the Commercial Paper Program (which are defined in Note 10 Debt in Item 8 of this Form 10-K), and the Receivables Facility and the Note Securitization Facility (each as defined below) combined with cash to be generated from operations, to fund foreseeable cash needs without requiring the repatriation of non-U.S. cash. 

The Company has access to $2.0 billion under the 2018 Revolving Facility which matures in July 2023. Up to $1.65 billion of the 2018 Revolving Facility may be used to support borrowings under our Commercial Paper Program.

In addition to the 2018 Revolving Facility, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, has a $400 million accounts receivable securitization facility (the “Receivables Facility”), which expires on April 22, 2022. As of December 31, 2019, the Company had no amounts outstanding under the Receivables Facility.

On April 25, 2019, we entered into an additional facility for borrowings up to $200 million (the “Note Securitization Facility”). Under the terms of each of the Receivables Facility and Note Securitization Facility, certain of our accounts receivable secure the amounts borrowed and cannot be used to pay our other debts or liabilities. The amount that we may borrow at a given point in time is determined based on the amount of qualifying accounts receivable that are present at such point in time. Borrowings outstanding under the Receivables Facility bear interest at a commercial paper rate plus 0.775% and under the Note Securitization Facility at London Interbank Offered Rate or LIBOR plus 0.75% and are included as a component of short-term borrowings, while the accounts receivable securing these obligations remain as a component of accounts receivable, net, in our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, the agreements governing the Receivables Facility and Note Securitization Facility contain various customary affirmative and negative covenants, and customary default and termination provisions.

We have entered into accounts receivable factoring agreements with financial institutions to sell certain of our non-U.S. accounts receivable. These transactions are accounted for as sales and result in a reduction in accounts receivable because the agreements transfer effective control over and risk related to the receivables to the buyers. Our factoring agreements do not allow for recourse in the event of uncollectibility, and we do not retain any interest in the underlying accounts receivable once sold. We derecognized $90.1 million of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2019 under these factoring arrangements.

At December 31, 2019, our long-term debt, including the current portion, totaled $12.67 billion, as compared to $13.82 billion at December 31, 2018. Total long-term debt is calculated net of deferred financing fees which were $60.5 million and $74.6 million at December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. 

For additional information regarding our debt and debt agreements refer to Note 10 Debt in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

62
Long-term Debt Maturity

Mandatory minimum repayments remaining on the outstanding notional amount of long-term debt at December 31, 2019 was as follows for each of the periods ending December 31:

The Company’s 2018 Revolving Facility contains customary affirmative covenants for facilities of this type, including among others, covenants pertaining to the delivery of financial statements, notices of default and certain material events, maintenance of corporate existence and rights, property, and insurance and compliance with laws, as well as customary negative covenants for facilities of this type, including limitations on the incurrence of subsidiary indebtedness, liens, mergers and certain other fundamental changes, investments and loans, acquisitions, transactions with affiliates, payments of dividends and other restricted payments and changes in our lines of business.

The 2018 Revolving Facility contains a maximum consolidated leverage ratio financial covenant requiring maintenance of a maximum ratio of 3.75 to 1.00 for consolidated total indebtedness as of the end of any quarter to consolidated EBITDA for the trailing four quarters as defined in the related credit agreements (“leverage ratio”).

 On February 22, 2019, the Company, as a guarantor, and Mylan Inc., as borrower, entered into an amendment (the "Revolving Loan Amendment") to the 2018 Revolving Facility. The Revolving Loan Amendment extended the leverage ratio covenant of 4.25 to 1.00 through the December 31, 2019 reporting period. The Company is in compliance at December 31, 2019 and expects to remain in compliance for the next twelve months.

Other Commitments

The Company is involved in various disputes, governmental and/or regulatory inquiries, investigations and proceedings, tax proceedings and litigation matters, both in the U.S. and abroad, that arise from time to time, some of which could result in losses, including damages, fines and/or civil penalties, and/or criminal charges against the Company. These matters are often complex and have outcomes that are difficult to predict. The Company is also party to certain proceedings and litigation matters for which it may be entitled to indemnification under the respective sale and purchase agreements relating to the acquisitions of the former Merck Generics business, Agila Specialties Private Limited, the EPD Business, and certain other acquisitions. We have approximately $59 million accrued for legal contingencies at December 31, 2019.

While the Company believes that it has meritorious defenses with respect to the claims asserted against it and intends to vigorously defend its position, the process of resolving these matters is inherently uncertain and may develop over a long period of time, and so it is not possible to predict the ultimate resolution of any such matter. It is possible that an unfavorable resolution of any of the ongoing matters or the inability or denial of Merck KGaA, Strides Arcolab, Abbott, or another indemnitor or insurer to pay an indemnified claim, could have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price.

On July 29, 2019, Newco and certain financial institutions executed a 364-day bridge commitment letter pursuant to which such financial institutions have committed to provide bridge financing (the “Bridge Facility”) to Newco to fund the $12 billion cash payment from Newco to Pfizer and to pay fees and expenses related to the transactions contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement. Mylan N.V. and Mylan Inc. will be guarantors of the Bridge Facility from and after the consummation of the Combination.

We are continuously evaluating the potential acquisition of products, as well as companies, as a strategic part of our future growth. Consequently, we may utilize current cash reserves or incur additional indebtedness to finance any such acquisitions, which could impact future liquidity. In addition, on an ongoing basis, we review our operations including the 

63
evaluation of potential divestitures of products and businesses as part of our future strategy. Any divestitures could impact future liquidity.

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2019 and the effect that such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________

(1) Scheduled interest payments represent the estimated interest payments related to our outstanding borrowings under senior notes and other long-term debt. Variable debt interest payments are estimated using current interest rates.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future payments, if any, the following contingent payments have not been included in the table above.

We are contractually obligated to make potential future development, regulatory and commercial milestone, royalty and/or profit sharing payments in conjunction with acquisitions we have entered into with third parties. The most significant of these relate to the potential future consideration related to the acquisition of the exclusive worldwide rights to develop, manufacture and commercialize a generic equivalent to GlaxoSmithKline’s Advair® Diskus incorporating Pfizer’s respiratory delivery platform. These payments are contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events and, given the nature of these events, it is unclear when we may be required to pay such amounts. The amount of the contingent consideration liabilities was $250.7 million at December 31, 2019. In addition, the Company expects to incur approximately $10 million to $15 million of non-cash accretion expense related to the increase in the net present value of the contingent consideration liabilities in 2020.

With respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2019, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority. As such, $92.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above.

In the normal course of business, Mylan periodically enters into employment, legal settlement and other agreements which incorporate indemnification provisions. While the maximum amount to which Mylan may be exposed under such agreements cannot be reasonably estimated, the Company maintains insurance coverage, which management believes will effectively mitigate the Company’s obligations under these indemnification provisions. No amounts have been recorded in the consolidated financial statements with respect to the Company’s obligations under such agreements.

We have entered into employment and other agreements with certain executives and other employees that provide for compensation and certain other benefits. These agreements provide for severance payments under certain circumstances. 

Collaboration and Licensing Agreements

We periodically enter into collaboration and licensing agreements with other pharmaceutical companies for the development, manufacture, marketing and/or sale of pharmaceutical products. Our significant collaboration agreements are primarily focused on the development, manufacturing, supply and commercialization of multiple, high-value generic biologic compounds, insulin analog products and respiratory products, among other complex products. Under these agreements, we have future potential milestone payments and co-development expenses payable to third parties as part of our licensing, development and co-development programs. Payments under these agreements generally become due and are payable upon the satisfaction or achievement of certain developmental, regulatory or commercial milestones or as development expenses are incurred on defined projects. Milestone payment obligations are uncertain, including the prediction of timing and the 

64
occurrence of events triggering a future obligation and are not reflected as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets, except obligations reflected as acquisition related contingent consideration. Refer to Note 9 Financial Instruments and Risk Management included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of contingent consideration. Our potential maximum development milestones not accrued for at December 31, 2019 totaled approximately $372 million. We estimate that the amounts that may be paid in the next twelve months to be approximately $62 million. These agreements may also include potential sales-based milestones and call for us to pay a percentage of amounts earned from the sale of the product as a royalty or a profit share. The amounts disclosed do not include sales-based milestones, royalty or profit share obligations on future sales of product as the timing and amount of future sales levels and costs to produce products subject to these obligations is not reasonably estimable. These sales-based milestones, royalty or profit share obligations may be significant depending upon the level of commercial sales for each product.

The Company’s significant collaboration and licensing agreements include those with Pfizer, Momenta, Theravance Biopharma, Biocon and FKB. Refer to Note 19 Collaboration and Licensing Agreements included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to our collaborations.

Impact of Currency Fluctuations and Inflation

Because our results are reported in U.S. Dollars, changes in the rate of exchange between the U.S. Dollar and the local currencies in the markets in which we operate, mainly the Euro, Swedish Krona, Indian Rupee, Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Pound Sterling and Brazilian Real affect our results as previously noted. We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our revenues or operations in any of the past three years. 

Application of Critical Accounting Policies

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

Included within these policies are certain policies which contain critical accounting estimates and, therefore, have been deemed to be “critical accounting policies.” Critical accounting estimates are those which require management to make assumptions about matters that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made and for which the use of different estimates, which reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We have identified the following to be our critical accounting policies: the determination of net revenue provisions, acquisitions, intangible assets, goodwill and contingent consideration, income taxes and the impact of existing legal matters.

Revenue Recognition

On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC Topic 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”) using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of the date of adoption. Results for reporting periods beginning on January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with ASC Topic 605 Revenue Recognition (“ASC 605”). Under ASC 605, the Company recognized net sales when title and risk of loss passed to its customers and when provisions for estimates, as described below, were reasonably determinable.

Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes net revenue for product sales when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for variable consideration, including discounts, rebates, governmental rebate programs, price adjustments, returns, chargebacks, promotional programs and other sales allowances. Accruals for these provisions are presented in the consolidated financial statements as reductions in determining net sales and as a contra asset in accounts receivable, net (if settled via credit) and other current liabilities (if paid in cash). The following briefly describes the nature of our provisions for variable consideration and how such provisions are estimated:

•Chargebacks: the Company has agreements with certain indirect customers, such as independent pharmacies, retail pharmacy chains, managed care organizations, hospitals, nursing homes, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers, which establish contract prices for certain products. The indirect customers then independently select a wholesaler from which to purchase the products at these contracted prices. Alternatively, certain wholesalers may enter into agreements with indirect customers that establish contract pricing for certain products, which the wholesalers provide. Under either arrangement, Mylan will provide credit to the wholesaler for any difference between the contracted price with the indirect party and the wholesaler’s invoice price. Such credits are called 

65
chargebacks. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected sell-through levels by our wholesaler customers to indirect customers, as well as estimated wholesaler inventory levels. We continually monitor our provision for chargebacks and evaluate our reserve and estimates as additional information becomes available. A change of 5% would have an effect on our reserve balance of approximately $25.9 million.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following is a rollforward of the categories of variable consideration during 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Accruals for these provisions are presented in the consolidated financial statements as reductions in determining net revenues and in accounts receivable and other current liabilities. Accounts receivable are presented net of allowances relating to these provisions, which were comprised of the following at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We have not made and do not anticipate making any significant changes to the methodologies that we use to measure provisions for variable consideration; however, the balances within these reserves can fluctuate significantly through the consistent application of our methodologies. Historically, we have not recorded in any current period any material amounts related to adjustments made to prior period reserves. 

66
Acquisitions, Intangible Assets, Goodwill and Contingent Consideration

The Company accounts for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with the provisions of ASC 805, which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective estimated fair values. The cost to acquire businesses is allocated to the underlying net assets of the acquired business based on estimates of their respective fair values. Amounts allocated to acquired IPR&D are capitalized at the date of acquisition and, at that time, such IPR&D assets have indefinite lives. As products in development are approved for sale, amounts are allocated to product rights and licenses and will be amortized over their estimated useful lives. Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over the expected life of the asset. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.

Purchases of developed products and licenses that are accounted for as asset acquisitions are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized over an estimated useful life. IPR&D assets acquired as part of an asset acquisition are expensed immediately if they have no alternative future uses.

The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact our results of operations. Fair values and useful lives are determined based on, among other factors, the expected future period of benefit of the asset, the various characteristics of the asset and projected cash flows. Because this process involves management making estimates with respect to future sales volumes, pricing, new product launches, government reform actions, anticipated cost environment and overall market conditions, and because these estimates form the basis for the determination of whether or not an impairment charge should be recorded, these estimates are considered to be critical accounting estimates.

The Company records contingent consideration resulting from business acquisitions at its estimated fair value on the acquisition date. Each reporting period thereafter, the Company revalues these obligations and records increases or decreases in their fair value as adjustments to litigation settlements and other contingencies, net within the consolidated statements of operations. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration obligations can result from adjustments to the discount rates, payment periods and adjustments in the probability of achieving future development steps, regulatory approvals, market launches, sales targets and profitability. These fair value measurements represent Level 3 measurements as they are based on significant inputs not observable in the market.

Significant judgment is employed in determining the assumptions utilized as of the acquisition date and for each subsequent measurement period. Accordingly, changes in the assumptions described above, could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations.

The Company reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable based on management’s assessment of the fair value of the Company’s reporting units as compared to their related carrying value. Under the authoritative guidance issued by the FASB, we have the option to first assess the qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. If we choose to use qualitative factors and determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the goodwill impairment test would be required. The goodwill impairment test requires the Company to estimate the fair value of the reporting unit and to compare the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount is less than its fair value, then no impairment is recognized. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value calculated, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. The judgments made in determining the projected cash flows used to estimate the fair value can materially impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

Goodwill is allocated and evaluated for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. The Company has four reporting units, North America Generics, North America Brands, Europe and Rest of World and completes its annual goodwill impairment test as of April 1st. As of April 1, 2019, the date of our most recent annual impairment test, the allocation of the Company’s total goodwill was as follows: North America Generics $2.67 billion, North America Brands $0.65 billion, Europe $4.56 billion and Rest of World $1.72 billion.

The Company has performed its annual goodwill impairment test as of April 1, 2019 on a quantitative basis for its four reporting units, North America Generics, North America Brands, Europe and Rest of World. In estimating each reporting unit’s fair value, the Company performed an extensive valuation analysis, utilizing both income and market-based approaches, except for the North America Brands reporting unit where the fair value was estimated utilizing the income approach. The determination of the fair value of the reporting units requires the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions that 

67
affect the reporting unit’s expected future cash flows. These estimates and assumptions, utilizing Level 3 inputs, primarily include, but are not limited to, market multiples, control premiums, the discount rate, terminal growth rates, operating income before depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures forecasts. The following describes the valuation methodologies used to derive the estimated fair value of the reporting units.

Income Approach: Under this approach, to determine fair value, we discounted the expected future cash flows of each reporting unit. We used a discount rate, which reflected the overall level of inherent risk and the rate of return an outside investor would have expected to earn. To estimate cash flows beyond the final year of our model, we used a terminal value approach. Under this approach, we used EBITDA in the final year of our model, adjusted to estimate a normalized cash flow, applied a perpetuity growth assumption, and discounted by a perpetuity discount factor to determine the terminal value. We incorporated the present value of the resulting terminal value into our estimate of fair value.

Market-Based Approach: The Company also utilizes a market-based approach to estimate fair value, principally utilizing the guideline company method which focuses on comparing our risk profile and growth prospects to a select group of publicly traded companies with reasonably similar guidelines.

As of April 1, 2019, the Company determined that the fair value of the North America Generics, North America Brands and Rest of World reporting units was substantially in excess of the respective unit’s carrying value. However, when compared to the prior year, the fair value of our overall business declined because of our recent operating results, future forecasts and the decline in our share price, including activity subsequent to April 1, 2019. 

For the Europe reporting unit, the estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately $900.0 million or 7.0%. The excess fair value for the Europe reporting unit is consistent with the result of the Company’s 2018 annual impairment test. As it relates to the income approach for the Europe reporting unit at April 1, 2019, the Company forecasted cash flows for the next 5 years. During the forecast period, the revenue compound annual growth rate was approximately 6.5%. A terminal year value was calculated with a 2.0% revenue growth rate applied. The discount rate utilized was 10.5% and the estimated tax rate was 24.0%. Under the market-based approach, we utilized an estimated range of market multiples of 8.0 to 9.5 times EBITDA plus a control premium of 15.0%. If all other assumptions are held constant, a reduction in the terminal value growth rate by 2.0% or an increase in discount rate by 1.5% would result in an impairment charge for the Europe reporting unit.

Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates. In addition, changes in underlying assumptions, especially as it relates to the key assumptions detailed, could have a significant impact on the fair value of the reporting units. 

The carrying values of long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives, are evaluated periodically in relation to the expected future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying assets and monitored for other potential triggering events. We have assessed the recoverability of certain long-lived assets, principally finite-lived intangible assets, contained within the reporting units whenever certain impairment indicators are present. Any impairment of these assets must be considered prior to our impairment review of goodwill. The assessment for impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of the long-lived assets or asset grouping by analyzing the expected future undiscounted pre-tax cash flows specific to the asset or asset grouping. If the carrying amount is greater than the undiscounted cash flows, the Company recognizes an impairment loss for the excess of the carrying amount over the estimated fair value based on discounted cash flows.

Significant management judgment is involved in estimating the recoverability of these assets and is dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions used in making these estimates, as well as how the estimates compare to the eventual future operating performance of the specific asset or asset grouping. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded $42.3 million, $106.3 million, and $6.2 million, respectively, of impairment charges for finite-lived intangible assets, which were recorded as a component of amortization expense. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company’s finite-lived intangible assets totaled $11.53 billion and $13.04 billion, respectively. Changes to any of the Company’s assumptions related to the estimated fair value based on the discounted cash flows, including discount rates or the competitive environment related to the assets, could lead to future material impairment charges. Any future long-lived assets impairment charges could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations.

The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets, principally IPR&D, are tested at least annually for impairment or upon the occurrence of a triggering event. The impairment test for IPR&D consists of a comparison of the asset’s fair value with its carrying value. Impairment is determined to exist when the fair value of IPR&D assets, which is based upon updated forecasts and commercial development plans, is less than the carrying value of the assets being tested. For the years ended 

68
December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded $138.3 million, $117.7 million, and $74.6 million, respectively, of impairment charges, which were recorded as a component of amortization expense. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company’s IPR&D assets totaled $120.3 million and $625.6 million, respectively. 

The fair value of both IPR&D and finite-lived intangible assets was determined based upon detailed valuations employing the income approach which utilized Level 3 inputs, as defined in Note 9 Financial Instruments and Risk Management included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes to any of the Company’s assumptions including changes to or abandonment of development programs, regulatory timelines, discount rates or the competitive environment related to the assets could lead to future material impairment charges. 

Income Taxes

We compute our income taxes based on the statutory tax rates and tax reliefs available to Mylan in the various jurisdictions in which we generate income. Significant judgment is required in determining our income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish reserves in accordance with Mylan’s policy regarding accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. Our policy provides that the tax effects from an uncertain tax position be recognized in Mylan’s financial statements, only if the position is more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, based on the technical merits of the position. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the settlement of a tax audit. Our provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves. Favorable resolution would be recognized as a reduction to our provision for income taxes in the period of resolution or expiration of the underlying statutes of limitation. Based on this evaluation, as of December 31, 2019, our reserve for unrecognized tax benefits totaled $92.1 million. 

Management assesses the available positive and negative evidence to estimate if sufficient future taxable income will be generated to utilize the existing deferred tax assets. A significant piece of objective negative evidence evaluated was the cumulative loss incurred in certain taxing jurisdictions over the three-year period ended December 31, 2019. Such objective evidence limits the ability to consider other subjective evidence such as our projections for future growth.

Based on this evaluation and other factors, as of December 31, 2019, a valuation allowance of $603.5 million has been recorded in order to measure only the portion of the deferred tax asset that more likely than not will be realized. The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be adjusted if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced or if objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such as projections for growth. When assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers all available evidence, including historical information, long-term forecasts of future taxable income and possible tax planning strategies. Amounts recorded for valuation allowances can result from a complex series of estimates, assumptions and judgments about future events. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, assumptions and judgments, actual results could differ materially. Any future increases to the Company’s valuation allowances could materially impact the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company’s net deferred tax assets totaled $703.1 million and $572.2 million, respectively. 

 A variance of 5% between estimated reserves and valuation allowances and actual resolution and realization of these tax items would have an effect on our reserve balance and valuation allowance of approximately $34.8 million.

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was signed into law making significant changes to the Code. Changes include, but are not limited to, a U.S. federal corporate income tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the partial transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings of non-U.S. corporate subsidiaries of large U.S. shareholders as of December 31, 2017.

Legal Matters

Mylan is involved in various legal proceedings, some of which involve claims for substantial amounts. An estimate is made to accrue for a loss contingency relating to any of these legal proceedings if it is probable that a liability was incurred as of the date of the financial statements and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Because of the subjective nature inherent in assessing the outcome of litigation and because of the potential that an adverse outcome in a legal proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price, such estimates are considered to be critical accounting estimates.

69
A variance of 5% between estimated and recorded litigation reserves and actual resolution of certain legal matters would have an effect on our litigation reserve balance of approximately $2.9 million. Refer to Note 20 Litigation included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of litigation matters.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Refer to Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted.

ITEM 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk