Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and market prices such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and changes in the market value of equity instruments. We are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign exchange and interest rates. We actively monitor these exposures. Historically, in order to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we entered into a variety of derivative financial instruments, mainly interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward rate agreements. Currently we only employ basic contracts, that is, without options, embedded or otherwise. Our objective is to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the value of our net investments in subsidiaries resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. It is our policy not to trade in financial instruments.  

60 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  

We operate globally and we predominantly generate revenues and expenses in local currencies. Because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into our reporting currency, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to transaction exposure.  

For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded a net gain of $1 million and a net loss of $2 million, respectively, associated with foreign currency derivative financial instruments within foreign currency exchange transactions gains/(losses), net in our consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the notional amounts of outstanding foreign currency derivative financial instruments were $125 million and $76 million, respectively.  

The table below details the percentage of revenues and expenses by currency for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Based on the year ended December 31, 2019, a one cent change in the U.S. dollar/Euro exchange rate would have impacted revenues by approximately $6 million annually, with an immaterial impact on operating income/(loss).  

Operations in Argentina 

We have operations in both the Connect and Media segments in Argentina and the functional currency for those operations is the Argentine Peso. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, Argentina’s currency has been considered hyperinflationary since July 1, 2018, and, accordingly, local currency transactions have been denominated in U.S. dollars since July 1, 2018, and will continue to be denominated in U.S. dollars until Argentina’s currency is no longer deemed to be hyperinflationary. We will continue to assess the appropriate conversion rate based on events in Argentina and our Argentina operations. This event has had an immaterial impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Interest Rate Risk  

We continually review our fixed and variable rate debt along with related hedging opportunities in order to ensure our portfolio is appropriately balanced as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy and through this process we consider both short-term and long-term considerations in the U.S. and global financial markets in making adjustments to our tolerable exposures to interest rate risk. At December 31, 2019, we had $3,952 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities, of which $2,050 million was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. A one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $19 million ($40 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps).  

In May 2019, the Company entered into a $150 million aggregate notional amount four-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of July 9, 2019. This agreement fixes the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the Company’s variable-rate-debt at an average rate of 1.82%. This derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. 

In March 2019, the Company entered into a $150 million aggregate notional amount four-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of April 9, 2019. This agreement fixes the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the Company’s variable-rate-debt at an average rate of 2.26%. This derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. 

In March 2019, the Company entered into a $250 million aggregate notional amount four-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of June 9, 2019. This agreement fixes the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the Company’s variable-rate-debt at an average rate of 2.07%. This derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. 

61 

In May 2018, the Company entered into $250 million aggregate notional amount of a five-year interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of May 9, 2018. This agreement fixes the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the Company’s variable-rate debt at an average rate of 2.72%. This derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. 

In August 2017, the Company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a four-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of October 10, 2017. This agreement fixes the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the Company’s variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.60%. This derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. 

In July 2017, the Company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of October 10, 2017. This agreement fixes the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the Company’s variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.66%. This derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. 

In April 2017, the Company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of July 10, 2017. This agreement fixes the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the Company’s variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.63%. This derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. 

In March 2017, the Company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a five-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of July 10, 2017. This agreement fixes the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the Company’s variable-rate debt at an average rate of 2.00%. This derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. 

In February 2017, the Company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of July 10, 2017. This agreement fixes the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the Company’s variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.73%. This derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. 

Derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of non-performance, or credit risk. We do not believe that we currently face a significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments, as these transactions were executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions with a minimum investment-grade or better credit rating. Our credit risk exposure is managed through the continuous monitoring of our exposures to such counterparties.  

62 

Item 8.