PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

“Newell Brands” or the “Company” refers to Newell Brands Inc. alone or with its wholly owned subsidiaries, as the context requires. When this report uses the words “we,” “us” or “our,” it refers to the Company and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. The Company was founded in Ogdensburg, New York in 1903 and is incorporated in Delaware. 

Website Access to Securities and Exchange Commission Reports

The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as practicable after the Company files them with, or furnishes them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The Company’s Internet website can be found at www.newellbrands.com. The information on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual report on Form 10-K.

GENERAL

Newell Brands is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products that make life better every day, where they live, learn, work and play. Our products are marketed under a strong portfolio of leading brands, including Paper Mate®, Sharpie®, Dymo®, EXPO®, Parker®, Elmer’s®, Coleman®, Marmot®, Oster®, Sunbeam®, FoodSaver®, Mr. Coffee®, Rubbermaid Commercial Products®, Graco®, Baby Jogger®, NUK®, Calphalon®, Rubbermaid®, Contigo®, First Alert®, Mapa®, Spontex®, Quickie® and Yankee Candle®. The Company sells its products in nearly 200 countries around the world and has operations on the ground in nearly 100 of these countries.

BUSINESS STRATEGY 

The Company is currently executing a turnaround strategy, with the vision of building a global, next generation consumer products company that can unleash the full potential of its brands in a fast moving omni-channel environment. These strategies are designed to address key challenges facing the Company, including: shifting consumer preferences and behaviors; a highly competitive operating environment; a rapidly changing retail landscape, including the growth in e-commerce; continued macroeconomic and political volatility; and an evolving regulatory landscape.

The Company has identified the following strategic imperatives to address and adapt to these challenges during its turnaround period:

•Strengthen the portfolio by investing in attractive categories aligned with its capabilities and strategy;

•Sustainable profitable growth by focusing on innovation, as well as growth in digital marketing, e-commerce and its international businesses;

•Attractive margins by driving productivity and overhead savings to reinvest into the business;

•Cash efficiency by improving key working capital metrics, resulting in a lower cash conversion cycle; and

•Build a winning team through engagement and focusing the best people on the right things.

Execution on these strategic imperatives will better position the Company for long-term sustainable growth in order to achieve its short-to-near-term goals of: 

•Growing core sales;

•Improving operating margins;

•Accelerating cash conversion cycle; and

•Strengthening organizational capability and employee engagement.

Accelerated Transformation Plan

On December 31, 2019, the Company completed the sale of its Playing Cards business to Cartamundi Inc. and Cartamundi España S.L. for approximately $220 million, subject to adjustment for working capital and other items, and recorded a pre-tax loss of $5.0 million, which completed its previously announced Accelerated Transformation Plan (the “ATP”), which was designed to accelerate value creation and more rapidly transform the portfolio to one best positioned to leverage the Company’s advantaged capabilities in innovation, design and e-commerce. The ATP was also designed to significantly increase shareholder value through both meaningful returns of capital to shareholders and strengthened operational and financial performance, while simultaneously deleveraging the balance sheet. 

1
In connection with the ATP, the Company completed the sale of several businesses during 2018 and 2019. In 2018, the Company sold: Goody Products, Inc. (“Goody”), Jostens, Inc. (“Jostens”), Pure Fishing, Inc. (“Pure Fishing”), the Rawlings Sporting Goods Company, Inc. (“Rawlings”), Waddington Group, Inc. (“Waddington”) and other related subsidiaries. In 2019, the Company sold: its Process Solutions business, Rexair Holdings Inc. (“Rexair”), The United States Playing Card Company and other related subsidiaries. As a result of these transactions, the Company recorded aggregate pre-tax gains of $7.3 million and $831 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively, and received gross proceeds of $996 million and $5.1 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively. At December 31, 2019, the Company’s total debt was $5.7 billion and cash and cash equivalents were $349 million. 

In July 2019, the Company announced its decision to no longer pursue the sale of the majority of the Rubbermaid Outdoor, Closet, Refuse, Garage and Cleaning businesses (“Commercial Products”). The decision to keep Commercial Products was based on the strength of the brand, its competitive position in a large and growing category, and track record of cash flow generation, revenue growth and margin expansion. Management believes that retaining this business will further enhance the value creation opportunity for the Company. In October 2019, the Company decided to no longer pursue the sale of the Mapa/Spontex and Quickie businesses. The decision to keep these businesses was based on their financial profile, relative to expected sales proceeds. 

At December 31, 2019, the Rubbermaid Outdoor, Closet, Refuse, Garage and Cleaning businesses and the Mapa/Spontex and Quickie businesses (the “Commercial Business”) are no longer classified as held for sale in the Consolidated Financial Statements and are reported in the Food and Commercial segment (see below) for all periods presented. During 2019, the Company recorded a cumulative catch-up adjustment of depreciation and amortization expense of $56.6 million to reflect the amounts that would have been recorded had these businesses been continuously classified as held and used.

See Footnote 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Organizational Structure

The Company’s four primary operating segments are as follows:

Segment Key Brands Description of Primary Products

Appliances and Cookware Calphalon®, Crock-Pot®, Mr. Coffee®, Oster® and Sunbeam® Household products, including kitchen appliances, gourmet cookware, bakeware and cutlery

Food and Commercial 

Ball®, FoodSaver®, Rubbermaid®, Sistema®, Rubbermaid Commercial Products®, Mapa®, Quickie® and Spontex®

 Food storage and home storage products, fresh preserving products, vacuum sealing products, commercial cleaning and maintenance solutions, hygiene systems and material handling solutions

Home and Outdoor Living Chesapeake Bay Candle®, Coleman®, Contigo®, ExOfficio®, First Alert®, Marmot®, WoodWick® and Yankee Candle® Products for outdoor and outdoor-related activities, home fragrance products and connected home and security

Learning and Development Aprica®, Baby Jogger®, Dymo®, Elmer’s®, EXPO®, Graco®, Mr. Sketch®, NUK®, Paper Mate®, Parker®, Prismacolor®, Sharpie®, Tigex® Waterman® and X-Acto® Writing instruments, including markers and highlighters, pens and pencils; art products; activity-based adhesive and cutting products; labeling solutions; baby gear and infant care products

This new structure reflects the manner in which the chief operating decision maker regularly assesses information for decision-making purposes, including the allocation of resources. The Company also provides general corporate services to its segments which is reported as a non-operating segment, Corporate. See Footnote 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Appliances and Cookware

The Appliances and Cookware segment designs, manufactures, sources, markets and distributes a diverse line of household products. Kitchen appliances are primarily sold under the Crock-Pot®, Mr. Coffee®, Oster® and Sunbeam® trademarks. Aluminum and stainless-steel cookware and bakeware are sold under the Calphalon® trademark. The Appliances and Cookware segment also has rights to sell various small appliance products in substantially all of Europe under the Breville® brand name.

2
The Appliances and Cookware segment primarily markets its products directly to club, department store, drug/grocery, home centers, mass merchant, specialty retailers, distributors and e-commerce companies.

Food and Commercial

The Food and Commercial segment designs, manufactures, sources, markets and distributes a diverse line of household products. Food storage products are sold primarily under the FoodSaver®, Rubbermaid® and Sistema® trademarks. The Company also sells certain food storage products under the Ball® trademark, pursuant to a license from Ball Corporation. The Commercial Business designs, manufactures or sources and distributes cleaning and refuse products, hygiene systems and material handling solutions primarily under the Quickie®, Mapa®, Rubbermaid®, Rubbermaid Commercial Products® and Spontex® trademarks. 

The Food and Commercial segment primarily markets its products directly to club, department store, drug/grocery, home centers, commercial products distributors, mass merchant, specialty retailers, distributors, e-commerce companies, select contract customers and other professional customers.

Home and Outdoor Living

The Home and Outdoor Living segment designs, manufactures, sources, markets and distributes home fragrance and home security products, as well as global consumer active lifestyle products for outdoor and outdoor-related activities. Home fragrance products are sold primarily under the Chesapeake Bay Candle®, WoodWick® and Yankee Candle® trademarks. Home security products are primarily sold under the First Alert® trademark. Active lifestyle products are sold primarily under the Coleman®, Contigo®, ExOfficio® and Marmot® trademarks. 

The Home and Outdoor Living segment primarily markets its products directly to club, department store, drug/grocery, home centers, mass merchant, sporting goods and specialty retailers, distributors and e-commerce companies, as well as direct to consumers on-line and in Yankee Candle retail stores.

Learning and Development

The Learning and Development segment designs, manufactures, sources, markets and distributes writing instruments, including markers and highlighters, pens and pencils; art products; activity-based adhesive and cutting products; labeling solutions; baby gear and infant care products. Writing instruments, activity-based adhesive and cutting products and labeling solutions products are sold primarily under the Dymo®, Elmer’s®, EXPO®, Mr. Sketch®, Paper Mate®, Parker®, Prismacolor®, Sharpie®, Waterman® and X-Acto® trademarks. Baby gear and infant care and health products are sold primarily under the Baby Jogger®, Graco®, NUK® and Tigex® trademarks.

The Learning and Development segment primarily markets its products directly to mass merchants, warehouse clubs, drug/grocery stores, office superstores, office supply stores, contract stationers, travel retail, distributors and e-commerce companies, and direct to consumers on-line.

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.

OTHER INFORMATION

Multi-Product Offering

The Company’s broad product offering in multiple categories permits it to more effectively meet the needs of its customers. With families of leading brand names and profitable and innovative new products, the Company can assist volume purchasers in selling a more profitable product mix. As a potential single source for an entire product line, the Company can use program merchandising to improve product presentation, optimize display space for both sales and income, and encourage impulse buying by retail consumers.

3
Raw Materials and Sourced Finished Goods

The Company has multiple foreign and domestic sources of supply for substantially all of its material requirements. The raw materials and various purchased components required for its products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. The Company’s product offerings require the purchase of resin, corrugate, glass, plastic, expanded polystyrene, extinguisher powder, nylon, paper, plastic resin, sawdust, tin plate, wax and wood, natural rubber, electrical components, glass fiber, magnesium, adhesives, various paper-related packaging materials and metals, including steel, stainless steel, aluminum and copper. The Company’s resin purchases are principally comprised of polyethylene, polypropylene and copolyester.

The Company also relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. Historically, the Company has experienced inflation in sourced product costs due to currency fluctuations and increased input and labor costs. For a limited number of product lines, a single manufacturer or a limited number of manufacturers may supply substantially all the finished goods for a product line. In particular, certain businesses within the Company’s Learning and Development segment rely on third-party manufacturers for substantially all of their products. Specifically, the Baby business unit has a single source of supply for products that comprise a majority of its sales and which owns the intellectual property for many of those products.

Backlog

The dollar value of unshipped orders is not material.

Seasonal Variations

Sales of the Company’s products tend to be seasonal, with sales, operating income and operating cash flow in the first quarter generally lower than any other quarter during the year, driven principally by reduced volume and the mix of products sold in the first quarter. The seasonality of the Company’s sales volume combined with the accounting for fixed costs, such as depreciation, amortization, rent, personnel costs and interest expense, impacts the Company’s results on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Company tends to generate the majority of its operating cash flow in the third and fourth quarters of the year due to seasonal variations in operating results, the timing of annual performance-based compensation payments, customer program payments, working capital requirements and credit terms provided to customers.

Patents and Trademarks

The Company has many patents, trademarks, brand names and tradenames that are, in the aggregate, important to its business. The Company’s most significant registered trademarks include Aprica®, Baby Jogger®, Calphalon®, Campingaz®, Coleman®, Contigo®, Crock-Pot®, Dymo®, Elmer’s®, EXPO®, First Alert®, FoodSaver®, Graco®, Mapa®, Marmot®, Mr. Coffee®, NUK®, Oster®, Paper Mate®, Parker®, Quickie®, Rubbermaid Commercial Products®, Rubbermaid®, Sistema®, Spontex®, Sunbeam®, WoodWick®, Sharpie® and Yankee Candle®.

Customers/Competition

The Company’s principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, direct-to-consumer channels, specialty retailers and wholesalers, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. The dominant share of the market represented by large mass merchandisers, together with consumer shopping patterns, contributes to a market environment in which dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies have strong negotiating power with suppliers. This environment may limit the Company’s ability to recover cost increases through pricing.

Current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, reducing current inventory levels, demanding innovative new products and products tailored to each of their unique requirements and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends, in the absence of a strong new product development effort or strong end-user brands, are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import generic products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products under their own private label brands, which compete with the Company’s products. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company’s principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company competes with numerous manufacturers and distributors of consumer products, many of which are large and well-established. Our Yankee Candle retail stores compete primarily with specialty candle and personal care retailers and a variety of other retailers, including department stores, gift stores and national specialty retailers that sells candles.

4
The Company’s principal methods of meeting its competitive challenges are creating and maintaining leading brands and differentiated products that deliver superior value and performance; delivering superior customer service and consistent on-time delivery and producing and procuring products at a competitive cost. In addition, the Company has experienced management that focuses on building consumer loyalty and increased consumer demand through increased investment in consumer insights and using those insights to develop innovative products and product features that meet consumers’ needs.

The Company has also positioned itself to respond to the competitive challenges in the retail environment by developing strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company markets its strong multi-product offering through virtually every category of high-volume retailers, including discount, drug/grocery and variety chains; warehouse clubs; department, hardware and specialty stores; home centers; office superstores; contract stationers; and e-commerce companies. The Company’s largest customer, Walmart Inc. and subsidiaries (“Walmart”), accounted for approximately 14.6%, 14.6% and 14.8% of net sales in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Company’s top-ten customers in 2019 included (in alphabetical order): Amazon, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Costco, Lowe’s, Kroger, Office Depot, Staples, Target, The Home Depot and Walmart.

Environmental Matters

Information regarding the Company’s environmental matters is included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.

Research and Development

The Company’s research and development efforts focus on developing new, differentiated and innovative products to meet consumers’ needs. The Company’s product development efforts begin with consumer insights. The Company continues to invest to strengthen its product design, research and development capabilities and has consolidated its design and innovation capabilities and consumer marketing and insight capabilities into a global center of excellence to further strengthen these capabilities. Product development efforts begin with enhanced marketing and insight and research and development capabilities, which have been leveraged to implement a new ideation process throughout the business, resulting in idea fragments that feed the development of product concepts.

Employees

At December 31, 2019, the Company had approximately 30,000 employees worldwide, a portion of which are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in countries that have collective arrangements decreed by statute. Management believes that its relationships with its employees and collective bargaining unions are satisfactory.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS