ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

The Company manages foreign currency transaction and translation risk by utilizing derivative and non-derivative financial instruments, including forward exchange contracts, costless collar contracts, cross-currency swap contracts and certain foreign denominated debt designated as net investment hedges. The derivative financial instrument contracts are with major investment grade financial institutions and we do not anticipate any material non-performance by any of the counterparties. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.

Derivative financial instruments are recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair value. Further information on the fair value of these contracts is provided in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are adjusted to fair value by recording gains and losses through the Consolidated Statement of Income. Derivatives that are designated as hedges are adjusted to fair value by recording gains and losses through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the Consolidated Balance Sheet until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. For cross-currency swaps measured using the spot method, the periodic interest settlements are recognized directly in earnings through interest expense. The translation of the foreign denominated debt that has been designated as a net investment hedge is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and remains there until the underlying net investment is sold or substantially liquidated.

The Company's debt portfolio contains variable rate debt, inherently exposing the Company to interest rate risk. The Company's objective is to maintain a 60/40 mix between fixed rate and variable rate debt thereby limiting its exposure to changes in near-term interest rates. A 100 basis point increase in near-term interest rates would increase annual interest expense on variable rate debt existing at June 30, 2020 by approximately $24 million.

As discussed elsewhere in this report, the recent outbreak of COVID-19 has negatively impacted and we expect it to continue to negatively impact our business and results of operations. As we cannot predict the ultimate duration or scope of the COVID-19 pandemic, the ultimate negative financial impact to our results cannot be reasonably estimated, but could be material.

28
ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.