ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. We are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. Periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. Counterparties to all derivative contracts are major financial institutions. All instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. The major accounting policies and utilization of these instruments is described more fully in ITEM 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

38

Interest rate risk

Our debt portfolio as of December 31, 2019, was comprised of debt predominantly denominated in U.S. dollars. This debt portfolio is comprised of 66% fixed-rate debt and 34% variable-rate debt. Changes in interest rates have different impacts on the fixed and variable-rate portions of our debt portfolio. A change in interest rates on the fixed portion of the debt portfolio impacts the fair value, but has no impact on interest incurred or cash flows. A change in interest rates on the variable portion of the debt portfolio impacts the interest incurred and cash flows but does not impact the net financial instrument position.

Based on the fixed-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, as of December 31, 2019, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $39.8 million decrease or $43.4 million increase in fair value, respectively.

Based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio as of December 31, 2019, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $3.5 million increase or decrease in interest incurred.

Foreign currency risk

We conduct business in various locations throughout the world and are subject to market risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. Periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. The functional currencies of our foreign operating locations are generally the local currency in the country of domicile. We manage these operating activities at the local level and revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies, thereby mitigating the risk associated with changes in foreign exchange. However, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are reported in U.S. dollars and thus will fluctuate with changes in exchange rates between such local currencies and the U.S. dollar.

From time to time, we may enter into short duration foreign currency contracts to hedge foreign currency risks. As the majority of our foreign currency contracts have an original maturity date of less than one year, there is no material foreign currency risk. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $17.0 million and $47.6 million, respectively. Changes in the fair value of all derivatives are recognized immediately in income unless the derivative qualifies as a hedge of future cash flows. Gains and losses related to a hedge are deferred and recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss and subsequently recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income when the hedged item affects earnings.

At December 31, 2019, we had outstanding cross currency swap agreements with a combined notional amount of $777.0 million. The cross currency swap agreements are accounted for as either cash flow hedges to hedge foreign currency fluctuations on certain intercompany debt, or as net investment hedges to manage our exposure to fluctuations in the Euro-U.S. Dollar exchange rate. The currency risk related to the cross currency swap agreements is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro. A 10% appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro would result in a $57.9 million net increase in Accumulated other comprehensive loss. Conversely, a 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro would result in a $55.2 million net decrease in Accumulated other comprehensive loss. However, these increases and decreases in Other comprehensive income would be offset by decreases or increases in the hedged items on our balance sheet.

39

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA