PART I

Item 1. Business

Introduction

Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our” or “us” refer to PVH Corp. and its subsidiaries.

Our fiscal years are based on the 52-53 week period ending on the Sunday closest to February 1 and are designated by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. References to a year are to our fiscal year, unless the context requires otherwise. Our 2019 year commenced on February 4, 2019 and ended on February 2, 2020; our 2018 year commenced on February 5, 2018 and ended on February 3, 2019; and our 2017 year commenced on January 30, 2017 and ended on February 4, 2018.

References to the brand names TOMMY HILFIGER, HILFIGER COLLECTION, TOMMY HILFIGER TAILORED, TOMMY JEANS, TOMMY SPORT, CALVIN KLEIN, CALVIN KLEIN 205 W39 NYC, CK CALVIN KLEIN, CALVIN KLEIN JEANS, CALVIN KLEIN UNDERWEAR, CALVIN KLEIN PERFORMANCE, Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, Speedo, Warner’s, Olga, True&Co., Geoffrey Beene, Kenneth Cole New York, Kenneth Cole Reaction, Unlisted, a Kenneth Cole Production, MICHAEL Michael Kors, Michael Kors Collection, DKNY, Chaps, and to other brand names in this report are to registered and common law trademarks owned by us or licensed to us by third parties and are identified by italicizing the brand name.

References to the acquisition of Warnaco refer to our February 2013 acquisition of The Warnaco Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, which companies we refer to collectively as “Warnaco.”

References to the acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger refer to our May 2010 acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger B.V. and certain affiliated companies, which companies we refer to collectively as “Tommy Hilfiger.”

References to the acquisition of Calvin Klein refer to our February 2003 acquisition of Calvin Klein, Inc. and certain affiliated companies, which companies we refer to collectively as “Calvin Klein.”

We obtained the market and competitive position data used throughout this report from research, surveys or studies conducted by third parties (including, with respect to the brand rankings, the NPD Group/POS Tracking Service), information provided by customers, and industry or general publications. The United States department and chain store rankings to which we refer in this report are on a unit basis. Industry publications and surveys generally state that they have obtained information from sources believed to be reliable but do not guarantee the accuracy and completeness of such information. While we believe that each of these studies and publications and all other information are reliable, we have not independently verified such data and we do not make any representation as to the accuracy of such information.

Company Information

We were incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1976 as the successor to a business begun in 1881. Our principal executive offices are located at 200 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10016; our telephone number is (212) 381-3500. 

We make available at no cost, on our corporate website, PVH.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). All such filings are also available on the SEC’s website at sec.gov. 

We also make available at no cost on PVH.com, the charters of the committees of our Board of Directors, as well as our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. 

Company Overview

We are one of the largest global apparel companies in the world. We have over 40,000 associates operating in more than 40 countries and generated $9.9 billion in revenues in 2019. We manage a diversified brand portfolio, including TOMMY HILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN, Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, Warner’s, Olga and Geoffrey Beene brands, as well as the digital-centric True&Co. intimates brand. We license brands from third parties, including Speedo (licensed in perpetuity for North 

 1

America and the Caribbean), Kenneth Cole New York, Kenneth Cole Reaction, Unlisted, a Kenneth Cole Production, MICHAEL Michael Kors, Michael Kors Collection, DKNY and Chaps. Our brand portfolio also consists of various other owned, licensed and, to a lesser extent, private label brands. We entered into a definitive agreement on January 9, 2020 to sell our Speedo North America business to Pentland Group PLC (“Pentland”), parent company of Speedo International Limited, which licenses the Speedo brand to us, and we will no longer license the Speedo trademark upon closing of the sale (the “Speedo transaction”). The Speedo transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2020, subject to customary closing conditions, including clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, which has been received.

We design and market branded dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear (casual apparel), jeanswear, performance apparel, intimate apparel, underwear, swimwear, swim products, handbags, accessories, footwear and other related products. Our brands are positioned to sell globally at various price points and in multiple channels of distribution. This enables us to offer products to a broad range of consumers, while minimizing competition among our brands and reducing our reliance on any one demographic group, product category, price point, distribution channel or region. We also license the use of our trademarks to third parties and joint ventures for product categories and in regions where we believe our licensees’ expertise can better serve our brands. During 2019, our directly operated businesses in North America consisted principally of wholesale sales under our TOMMY HILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN, Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, Speedo, Warner’s, Olga and Geoffrey Beene trademarks; the operation of digital commerce sites under the TOMMY HILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN, Speedo, True&Co., Van Heusen and IZOD trademarks and the styleBureau.com digital commerce site; and the operation of retail stores, principally in premium outlet centers, primarily under our TOMMY HILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN and certain of our heritage brands trademarks. Our directly operated businesses outside of North America consisted principally of our wholesale and retail sales in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region under our TOMMY HILFIGER trademarks; our wholesale and retail sales in Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America under our CALVIN KLEIN trademarks; and the operation of digital commerce sites under the TOMMY HILFIGER and CALVIN KLEIN trademarks. Our licensing activities principally related to the licensing worldwide of our TOMMY HILFIGER and CALVIN KLEIN trademarks for a broad array of product categories and for use in numerous discrete jurisdictions.

We have evolved from our 1881 roots to become a diversified global company through a combination of strategic acquisitions, including the Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger, and Warnaco acquisitions, and by successfully growing our brands globally across all channels of distribution. We have also acquired several regional licensed businesses and will continue to explore strategic acquisitions of licensed businesses, trademarks and companies that we believe are additive to our overall business.

We entered into agreements on July 3, 2019 to terminate early the licenses for the global Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger North America socks and hosiery businesses (the “Socks and Hosiery transaction”) in order to consolidate the socks and hosiery businesses for all of our brands in the United States and Canada in a newly formed joint venture, PVH Legwear LLC (“PVH Legwear”), in which we own a 49% economic interest, and bring in-house the international Calvin Klein socks and hosiery wholesale businesses. The Socks and Hosiery transaction closed on December 2, 2019. PVH Legwear was formed with a wholly owned subsidiary of our former Heritage Brands socks and hosiery licensee. PVH Legwear licenses from us the rights to distribute and sell TOMMY HILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN, IZOD, Van Heusen and Warner’s socks and hosiery.

We acquired the Tommy Hilfiger retail business in Central and Southeast Asia from our previous licensee in that market (the “TH CSAP acquisition”) on July 1, 2019. As a result of the TH CSAP acquisition, we now operate directly the Tommy Hilfiger retail business in the Central and Southeast Asia market.

We acquired the approximately 78% ownership interests in Gazal Corporation Limited (“Gazal”) that we did not already own (the “Australia acquisition”) on May 31, 2019. Prior to the closing, we, along with Gazal, jointly owned and managed a joint venture, PVH Brands Australia Pty. Limited (“PVH Australia”), which licensed and operated businesses in Australia, New Zealand and other parts of Oceania under the TOMMY HILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN and Van Heusen brands, along with other owned and licensed brands. PVH Australia came under our full control as a result of the Australia acquisition and we now operate directly those businesses. 

We entered into a licensing agreement on May 30, 2019 with G-III Apparel Group, Ltd. (“G-III”) for the design, production and wholesale distribution of CALVIN KLEIN JEANS women’s jeanswear collections in the United States and Canada (the “G-III license”), which resulted in the discontinuation of our directly operated Calvin Klein North America women’s jeanswear wholesale business in 2019.

 2

We acquired the Geoffrey Beene tradename from Geoffrey Beene, LLC (“Geoffrey Beene”) on April 20, 2018. Prior to the acquisition, we had licensed the rights to design, market and distribute Geoffrey Beene dress shirts and neckwear from Geoffrey Beene. 

We acquired True & Co., a direct-to-consumer intimate apparel digital commerce retailer, on March 30, 2017. This acquisition enabled us to participate further in the fast-growing online channel and provided a platform to increase innovation, data-driven decisions and speed in the way we serve our consumers across our channels of distribution. 

We aggregate our reportable segments for purposes of discussion in this Report into three main businesses: (i) Tommy Hilfiger, which consists of the Tommy Hilfiger North America and Tommy Hilfiger International segments; (ii) Calvin Klein, which consists of the Calvin Klein North America and Calvin Klein International segments; and (iii) Heritage Brands, which consists of the Heritage Brands Wholesale and Heritage Brands Retail segments. Note 21, “Segment Data,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report contains information with respect to revenue, income before interest and taxes, assets, depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures related to each segment, as well as information regarding our revenue generated by distribution channel and based on geographic location, and the geographic locations where our net property, plant and equipment is held. 

Our 2019 revenue was $9.9 billion, of which over 50% was generated outside of the United States. Our global designer lifestyle brands, TOMMY HILFIGER and CALVIN KLEIN, together generated approximately 85% of our revenue during 2019. 

Tommy Hilfiger Business Overview

We believe TOMMY HILFIGER is one of the world’s leading designer lifestyle brands and is internationally recognized for celebrating the essence of classic American cool style with a preppy twist. Global retail sales of products sold under the TOMMY HILFIGER brands, including sales by our licensees, were approximately $9.2 billion in 2019. Our Tommy Hilfiger business markets its products under several brands in order to fully capitalize on its global appeal, as each brand varies in terms of price point, product offerings, demographic target or distribution. The TOMMY HILFIGER brands consist of:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 3

 Tommy Hilfiger’s global marketing and communications strategy is to build a consumer-centric, go-to-market strategy that maintains the brand’s momentum, driving awareness, consistency and relevancy across product lines and regions. We engage consumers through comprehensive 360° marketing campaigns, which have a particular focus on innovative experiences and digital marketing initiatives. Marketing campaigns for the brand are focused on attracting a new generation of consumers worldwide through a blend of global and regional brand ambassadors. Tommy Hilfiger spent over $200 million on global marketing and communications efforts in 2019. 

Through our Tommy Hilfiger North America and Tommy Hilfiger International segments, we sell TOMMY HILFIGER products in a variety of distribution channels, including:

•Wholesale — principally consists of the distribution and sale of products in North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region under the TOMMY HILFIGER brands. In North America, distribution is primarily through department stores, warehouse clubs, and off-price and independent retailers, as well as digital commerce sites operated by the department store customers and pure play digital commerce retailers. In Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, distribution is through department and specialty stores, and digital commerce sites operated by department store customers and pure play digital commerce retailers, as well as through distributors and franchisees. 

•Retail — principally consists of the distribution and sale of products under the TOMMY HILFIGER brands in our stores in North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, as well as on the tommy.com sites we operate in over 30 countries. Our stores in North America are primarily located in premium outlet centers. In Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, we operate full-price specialty and outlet stores, as well as select flagship stores and concession locations. 

•Licensing — we license the TOMMY HILFIGER brands to third parties globally for a broad range of products through approximately 25 license agreements. We provide support to our licensees and seek to preserve the integrity of our brands by taking an active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and distribution of each licensed product, most of which are subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight. The arrangements generally are exclusive to a territory or product category. Territorial licensees include our joint ventures in Brazil, India and Mexico.

Tommy Hilfiger’s key licensees, and the products and territories licensed, include: 

Licensee Product Category and Territory

American Sportswear S.A. Men’s, women’s and children’s apparel, footwear and accessories (Central America, South America (excluding Brazil) and the Caribbean)

F&T Apparel LLC & KHQ Investment LLC 

Children’s apparel, children’s underwear and sleepwear and boy’s tailored clothing (United States and Canada) 

G-III  Men’s and women’s outerwear, luggage and women’s apparel, dresses, suits and swimwear (excluding intimates, sleepwear, loungewear, hats, scarves, gloves and footwear) (United States and Canada)

Handsome Corporation

 Men’s, women’s and children’s apparel, sportswear, socks and accessories and men’s and women’s outerwear (South Korea) 

MBF Holdings LLC Men’s and women’s footwear (United States and Canada)

Movado Group, Inc. & Swissam Products, Ltd. Men’s and women’s watches and jewelry (worldwide, excluding Japan (except certain customers))

Peerless Clothing International, Inc. Men’s tailored clothing (United States and Canada) 

Safilo Group S.P.A. Men’s, women’s and children’s eyeglasses and non-ophthalmic sunglasses (worldwide, excluding India)

Our Tommy Hilfiger North America segment includes the results of our Tommy Hilfiger wholesale, retail and licensing activities in the United States, Canada and Mexico, and our proportionate share of the net income or loss of our investments in our joint venture in Mexico and in PVH Legwear, in each case relating to the joint venture’s Tommy Hilfiger businesses. Our Tommy Hilfiger International segment includes the results of our Tommy Hilfiger wholesale, retail and 

 4

licensing activities outside of North America, and our proportionate share of the net income or loss of our investments in joint ventures in Brazil and India relating to the joint ventures’ Tommy Hilfiger businesses.

Calvin Klein Business Overview

CALVIN KLEIN is a global lifestyle brand built on iconic essentials and powered by bold, progressive ideals. Global retail sales of products sold under the CALVIN KLEIN brands, including sales by our licensees, were approximately $9.4 billion in 2019. The CALVIN KLEIN brands provide us with the opportunity to market products both domestically and internationally at various price points, through multiple distribution channels and to different consumer groups. Our tiered-brand strategy provides a focused, consistent approach to global growth and development that preserves the brand’s prestige and image. The CALVIN KLEIN brands consist of:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•CALVIN KLEIN — our “master” brand, offering men’s and women’s sportswear, swimwear, outerwear, fragrance, accessories, footwear, men’s dress furnishings, women’s dresses, suits and handbags, and items for the home. Distribution is primarily in North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region through our own stores, our wholesale partners (in stores and online), pure play digital commerce retailers and on calvinklein.com.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•CALVIN KLEIN PERFORMANCE — built on the foundation of innovation, fit and function. Designs are fashion-inspired and feature trend-driven, modern pieces that unite innovative fabric technology with classic American design elements. Distribution is primarily in North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region through our own stores, our wholesale partners (in stores and online), pure play digital commerce retailers and on calvinklein.com.

Over $365 million was spent globally in 2019 in connection with the advertising, marketing and promotion of the CALVIN KLEIN brands and approximately 40% of these expenses were funded by Calvin Klein’s licensees and other authorized users of the brands. Calvin Klein’s global marketing and communications strategy is to bring together all facets of the consumer marketing experience. The CALVIN KLEIN brands continue to generate compelling brand and cultural relevancy by continually evolving and driving consumer engagement. Marketing campaigns for the brand are focused on a truly digital first, socially powered experience for consumers, through the use of global and regional brand ambassadors and experiential events.

Through our Calvin Klein North America and Calvin Klein International segments, we sell CALVIN KLEIN products in a variety of distribution channels, including:

•Wholesale — principally consists of the distribution and sale of products in North America, Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Brazil under the CALVIN KLEIN brands. In North America, distribution is primarily through warehouse clubs, department and specialty stores, and off-price and independent retailers, as well as digital commerce sites operated by department store customers and pure play digital commerce retailers. In Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Brazil, distribution is through department and specialty stores, and digital commerce sites operated by department store customers and pure play digital commerce retailers, as well as through distributors and franchisees. 

•Retail — principally consists of the distribution and sale of apparel, accessories and related products under the CALVIN KLEIN brands in our stores in North America, Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Brazil, as well as on the calvinklein.com sites we operate in over 35 countries. Our stores in North America are primarily located in premium outlet centers. In Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Brazil, we operate full-price and outlet stores and concession locations. 

 5

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Calvin Klein’s key licensees, and the products and territories licensed, include: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Licenses for these categories will be transitioning to new licensees in 2020. 

Our Calvin Klein North America segment includes the results of our Calvin Klein wholesale, retail and licensing activities in the United States, Canada and Mexico, and our proportionate share of the net income or loss of our investments in our joint venture in Mexico and in PVH Legwear, in each case relating to the joint venture’s Calvin Klein businesses in North America. Our Calvin Klein International segment includes the results of our Calvin Klein wholesale, retail and licensing activities outside of North America, and our proportionate share of the net income or loss of our investment in our joint venture in India relating to the joint venture’s Calvin Klein business.

Heritage Brands Business Overview

Our Heritage Brands business designs, sources and markets a varied selection of prominent brand label dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear, swimwear, swim products, intimate apparel, underwear and related apparel and accessories, and licenses certain of our brands for an assortment of products. The Heritage Brands business also offers private label dress furnishings programs, particularly in neckwear. We design, source and market substantially all of these products on a brand-by-brand basis, targeting distinct consumer demographics and lifestyles in an effort to minimize competition among our brands. Global retail sales of products sold under our owned and licensed heritage brands, including sales by our licensees, were approximately $3.3 billion in 2019. 

 6

Through our Heritage Brands Wholesale and Heritage Brands Retail segments, we sell heritage brands products in a variety of distribution channels, including:

Wholesale — We principally distribute our Heritage Brands products at wholesale in the United States and Canada through department, chain and specialty stores, warehouse clubs, and mass market, off-price and independent retailers (in stores and online), as well as through pure play digital commerce retailers and, for Speedo products, through sporting goods stores, team dealers and swimclubs. Products sold through this channel principally consist of:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We license certain of the brands under which we sell men’s dress shirts and neckwear. The following table provides information with respect to the expiration of the licenses for the more significant brands (as determined based on 2019 sales volume): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Retail — We also market products directly to consumers through our Heritage Brands stores, primarily located in outlet centers throughout the United States and Canada. A majority of our stores offer a broad selection of Van Heusen men’s and women’s apparel, along with a limited selection of our dress shirt and neckwear offerings, and IZOD and Warner’s products. The majority of these stores feature multiple brand names on the store signage, with the remaining stores operating under the Van Heusen name. We also sell our products in the United States through our directly operated digital commerce sites for Speedo, True&Co., VanHeusen and IZOD, as well as our styleBureau.com site.

Licensing — We license our Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, Geoffrey Beene, Speedo, Warner’s and Olga brands globally for a broad range of products through approximately 80 license agreements. We provide support to our licensees and seek to preserve the integrity of our brands by taking an active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and 

 7

distribution of each licensed product, most of which are subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight. The arrangements generally are exclusive to a territory or product category. Territorial licenses include our joint venture in Mexico. 

Our heritage brands licensees, and the products and territories licensed by them, include:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Heritage Brands Wholesale segment includes the results of our Heritage Brands wholesale and licensing activities, the results of our directly operated digital commerce sites, and our proportionate share of the net income or loss of our investments in our joint venture in Mexico and in PVH Legwear, in each case relating to the joint venture’s Heritage Brands businesses. Our Heritage Brands Retail segment includes the results of our Heritage Brands stores.

 Our Business Strategy

We see opportunities for long-term growth as we employ our strategic priorities across our organization. Our global growth strategies include:

•Driving consumer engagement through innovative designs and personalized brand and shopping experiences that capture the heart of the consumer.

◦Leveraging data driven marketing to deepen the relationships with our consumers through segmented product assortments and personalized content.

•Expanding our worldwide reach through organic growth and acquisitions.

•Investing in and evolving how we operate by leveraging technology and data to be dynamic, nimble and forward-thinking.

◦Evolving our supply chain to adapt more quickly to change and reduce lead times.

•Developing a talented and skilled workforce that embodies our core values and an entrepreneurial spirit, while empowering our associates to design their future.

•Delivering sustainable, profitable growth and generating free cash flow to create long-term stockholder value.

Our strategies are complemented by our purpose to power brands that drive fashion forward, for good.

 8

Tommy Hilfiger Business

We believe that we can continue to grow global retail sales of TOMMY HILFIGER product through a number of initiatives, which include: 

•Driving brand heat and conversion by delivering dynamic consumer engagement initiatives that include brand ambassadors, capsule collections, consumer activations and experiential events.

•Delivering compelling products that reflect TOMMY HILFIGER’s accessible premium positioning and classic American cool aesthetic, with a focus on sustainability and social innovation.

•Category expansion within womenswear, accessories, denim and underwear.

•Regional expansion, particularly in the Asia-Pacific region.

•Digitizing the complete brand experience, from design to our showrooms for wholesale customers, to our online and in-store experiences. 

Calvin Klein Business

We believe growth opportunities exist to drive further global retail sales of CALVIN KLEIN product and improvements in the operating margin of our Calvin Klein business over time, including through:

•Reigniting the brand and driving conversion with consumer engagement initiatives that include brand ambassadors, capsule collections, consumer activations and experiential events.

•Delivering compelling products that reflect CALVIN KLEIN’s accessible premium positioning and seductive aesthetic, with a focus on sustainable product creation.

•Product improvement and expansion, particularly within men’s and women’s sportswear, jeanswear, accessories and women’s intimates. 

•Regional expansion, particularly in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.

•Further digitizing the brand by growing online sales and expanding omni-channel capabilities. 

•Identifying operating efficiencies across the business to drive improvements in our operating margins. 

Heritage Brands Business

Our Heritage Brands business represents our original business, where we developed our core competencies, and is an important complement to our global designer brand businesses. In addition to capturing market share and generating healthy cash flows, we will continue to look for further ways to optimize the Heritage Brands portfolio. Our strategic initiatives for our Heritage Brands business include: 

•Leveraging and enhancing each brand’s position in the market to drive market share gains, with a focus on the most profitable brands.

•Delivering trend-right products at an attractive value proposition, with a focus on new technologies, features and sustainability.

•Optimizing distribution, particularly in the mass market retailers and digital commerce, with a focus on driving profitable volume.

•Enhancing profitability by optimizing our portfolio, capitalizing on supply chain opportunities, reducing costs and maintaining a critical focus on inventory management.

 9

 Other Strategic Opportunities 

We believe we have an attractive and diverse portfolio of brands with growth potential. Nonetheless, we will continue to explore strategic acquisitions of companies or trademarks and licensing opportunities that we believe are additive to our overall business, including to address product category expertise and brand positioning and design perspective needs. We take a disciplined approach to acquisitions, seeking brands with broad consumer recognition that we can grow profitably and expand by leveraging our infrastructure and core competencies and, where appropriate, by extending the brand through licensing. 

Seasonality

Our business generally follows a seasonal pattern. Our wholesale businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales in the first and third quarters, while our retail businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales in the fourth quarter. Royalty, advertising and other revenue tends to be earned somewhat evenly throughout the year, although the third quarter has the highest level of royalty revenue due to higher sales by licensees in advance of the holiday selling season. We expect this seasonal pattern will generally continue. Working capital requirements vary throughout the year to support these seasonal patterns and business trends.

Design

Our business depends on our ability to stimulate and respond to consumer tastes and demands, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in the areas of quality and delivering a compelling price value proposition.

Our in-house design teams are significant contributors to the continued strength of our brands. Each of our branded businesses employs its own teams of designers and merchandisers that develop products representing its brand’s aesthetics, while also being mindful of consumers’ tastes, lifestyle needs and current fashion trends. To reflect consumer variances in each of our regional markets, the businesses tailor their products and offerings to appeal to local tastes, fit differences or other preferences, while maintaining the cohesive creative vision for each brand. Our teams have expanded their use of 3D design technology to enhance our design capabilities, which reduces the need for samples early in the design process and the time needed to bring products to market.

Product Sourcing

Our capabilities for worldwide procurement and sourcing enable us to deliver to our customers competitive and high quality goods at an attractive value and on a timely basis. We have an extensive established network of worldwide sourcing partners that enables us to meet our customers’ needs in an efficient manner without relying on any one vendor or factory or on vendors or factories in any one country. Our products were produced in over 1,200 factories in approximately 50 countries during 2019. All but one of these factories were operated by independent manufacturers, with most being located in Asia. 

We source finished products and, to a limited extent, raw materials and trim. Raw materials and trim include fabric, buttons, thread, labels and similar components. Finished products consist of manufactured and fully assembled products ready for shipment to our customers and our stores. Raw material, trim, and finished product commitments are generally made two to six months prior to production. We believe we are one of the largest users of shirting fabric in the world. We believe that an ample number of alternative suppliers exist should we need to secure additional or replacement production capacity and raw materials. 

Our purchases from our suppliers are effected through individual purchase orders specifying the price, quantity, delivery date and destination of the items to be produced. Sales are monitored regularly at both the retail and wholesale levels and modifications in production can be made either to increase or reduce inventories. We look to establish long-term supplier relationships in the appropriate locations throughout the world to meet our needs and we place our orders in a manner designed to limit the risk that a production disruption at any one facility could cause a serious inventory problem, while seeking to maximize the pricing opportunities.

The manufacturers of our products are required to meet our quality, human rights, safety, environmental and cost requirements. Our global supply chain teams, offices and buying agents enable us to monitor the quality of the goods manufactured by, and the delivery performance of, our suppliers and work with our global compliance teams to ensure the enforcement of our human rights and labor standards and other code of conduct requirements through our ongoing extensive training, approval and monitoring system. They also monitor and track the primary cost inputs to the finished product to ensure that we pay the most appropriate cost for our finished goods. 

 10

We continue to explore new areas of production that can grow with our businesses. Our country of origin strategy provides a flexible approach to product sourcing, which enables us to maximize regional opportunities and mitigate our potential exposure to risks associated with new duties, tariffs, surcharges, or other import controls or restrictions. While China remains an important sourcing country for us, we have reduced our exposure to the country over time by growing our sourcing base in other parts of Asia, as well as Africa. Many of these efforts have been with our existing factory partners. Additionally, we began producing finished products in Ethiopia during 2017 to evolve our supply chain and become more dynamic. Production is through a joint venture, PVH Arvind Manufacturing Private Limited Company (“PVH Ethiopia”), that we formed with Arvind Limited (“Arvind”). The goods produced are primarily distributed in the United States through our Heritage Brands business.

We also continue to develop strategies that can enhance the operational efficiency of our supply chain and unlock gross margin opportunities. We have incorporated 3D technology to enhance our design capabilities, which reduce our lead times, improve our planning abilities and eliminate the need for early samples in the design process. Speed is another critical focus area across the Company. We have implemented various speed models, core replenishment and read and react capabilities for select categories to enhance our operations and make our business model more dynamic and responsive, while also increasing service levels, reducing inventory exposure and improving quality and consumer value. We believe the enhancement of our supply chain efficiencies and working capital management through the effective use of our distribution network and overall infrastructure will allow us to control costs better and provide improved service to our customers.

Corporate Responsibility

As an industry leader and one of the largest branded apparel companies in the world, we recognize that we have a responsibility to address our social and environmental impacts. Corporate responsibility is central to how we conduct business and it is a crucial consideration embodied in all of the strategic business decisions that we make. 

In 2019, we built upon our long-standing commitment to corporate responsibility by launching Forward Fashion, our evolved vision for the future that provides a new level of ambition and transparency across our corporate responsibility program and reinforces our long-standing commitment to sustainable business. Our Forward Fashion strategy supports the standards released by the Global Fashion Agenda in its CEO Agenda 2019, which reflect global developments and focus on climate change as a core priority. We are committed to the goals outlined in our Forward Fashion strategy and are taking action in a number of ways, including joining key pledges and industry groups that align with our strategy.

Our three strategic focus areas are:

•Reduce negative impacts — Our ambition is for our products and business operations to generate zero waste, zero carbon emissions and zero hazardous chemicals. This means protecting our environment by reducing energy use and powering our business through renewable sources, diverting the waste we send to landfills, eliminating water pollution from our wet processors, and fostering and harnessing innovation to design and manufacture products that eliminate product waste.

•Increase positive impacts — Our ambition is for 100% of our products and packaging to be ethically and sustainably sourced from suppliers who respect human rights and are good employers. 

•Improve lives across our value chain — Our ambition is to improve the lives of the over one million people across our value chain, focusing on education and opportunities for women and children, ensuring access to clean water, investing in health and education initiatives, and continuing to champion inclusion and diversity.

We issue an annual report on our corporate responsibility efforts that can be found on our corporate website.

Warehousing, Distribution and Logistics

Our products are shipped from manufacturers to our wholesale and retail warehousing and distribution centers for inspection, sorting, packing and shipment. Centers range in size and our main facilities, some of which are operated by independent third parties, are located in the United States, the Netherlands, Canada, China, Japan, South Korea, Brazil and Australia. Our warehousing and distribution centers are designed to provide responsive service to our customers and our retail stores on a cost-effective basis. 

Our backlog of customer orders totaled $1.693 billion and $1.652 billion as of February 2, 2020 and February 3, 2019, respectively. The size of our order backlog depends upon a number of factors, including the timing of the market weeks for our 

 11

particular lines, during which a significant percentage of our orders are received, and the timing of the shipments, which varies from year-to-year with consideration for holidays, consumer trends, concept plans, and the usage of our basic stock replenishment programs. As a consequence, a comparison of the size of our order backlog from period to period may not be meaningful, nor may it be indicative of eventual shipments.

Material Customers

Our largest customers account for significant portions of our revenue. Sales to our five largest customers were 18.4% of our revenue in 2019 and 18.9% of our revenue in each of 2018 and 2017. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in 2019, 2018 or 2017.

Advertising and Promotion

Our marketing programs are an integral component of the success of our brands and the products offered under them. We intend for each of our brands to be a leader in its respective market segment, with strong consumer awareness, relevance and consumer loyalty. We believe that our brands are successful in their respective market segments because we have strategically positioned each brand to target a distinct consumer demographic. Advertisements generally portray a lifestyle representation of our category offerings rather than a specific item. We design and market our products to complement each other, satisfy lifestyle needs, emphasize product features important to our target consumers, deliver a strong price/value proposition and encourage consumer loyalty.

A significant component of our marketing programs is digital media, including our digital commerce platforms and social media channels, which allow us to expand our reach to customers and enable us to provide timely information in an entertaining fashion to consumers about our products, special events, promotions and store locations. Tommy Hilfiger’s digital commerce site, tommy.com, and Calvin Klein’s digital commerce site, calvinklein.com, serve as marketing vehicles to complement the ongoing development of the TOMMY HILFIGER and CALVIN KLEIN lifestyle brands, respectively, in addition to offering a broad array of apparel and licensed products. We also operate five Heritage Brands digital commerce sites in the United States: VanHeusen.com, IZOD.com, styleBureau.com, TrueAndCo.com and SpeedoUSA.com. 

We also advertise through print media (including fashion, entertainment/human interest, business, men’s, women’s and sports magazines and newspapers), on television, through outdoor signage and through in-store point of sale materials, as well as participate in cooperative advertising programs with our retail partners. In addition, we advertise our brands through sport sponsorships and product tie-ins. We believe that our use of high-profile brand ambassadors and well-known social media influencers across our marketing programs helps drive our brand awareness and cultural relevance. 

With respect to our retail outlet stores, the majority of which are located in premium outlet centers in the United States and Canada, we generally rely upon local outlet mall developers to promote traffic for their centers. Outlet center developers employ multiple formats, including signage, print advertising, direct marketing, radio and television advertising, and special promotions.

Tommy Hilfiger Business

We believe that TOMMY HILFIGER is one of the world’s leading lifestyle brands and is internationally recognized for celebrating the essence of classic American cool style with a preppy twist. Tommy Hilfiger employs advertising, marketing and communications staff, including an in-house creative team, as well as outside agencies, to implement its global marketing and communications strategy across all channels of distribution. The Tommy Hilfiger marketing and communications team develops and coordinates TOMMY HILFIGER advertising for all regions and product lines, licensees and regional distributors. Advertisements for TOMMY HILFIGER brand products appear primarily in social media outlets, fashion and lifestyle magazines, newspapers, outdoor media and cinema and on television. The digital and online focus of marketing for the TOMMY HILFIGER brands is integral to its campaigns and continues to increase. Additionally, the marketing and communications team coordinates personal appearances by Mr. Tommy Hilfiger, including at runway shows and brand events as part of its efforts. Tommy Hilfiger maintains multiple showroom facilities and sales offices around the world. Nearly all of its showrooms are digitized, offering a more engaging, integrated and seamless buying experience for its wholesale partners. 

Celebrity partnerships continued to be a cornerstone of our TOMMY HILFIGER consumer engagement efforts in 2019 using a balance of global and regional brand ambassadors. TOMMY HILFIGER’s partnership with British Formula OneTM racing driver and five-time Formula OneTM World Champion Lewis Hamilton, which began in 2018, continued to drive momentum in 2019, including through an experiential event during Fall 2019 Milan Fashion Week, where consumers were able 

 12

to experience the TOMMY HILFIGER fashion show and view the TommyXLewis collaborative collection on different platforms. TOMMY HILFIGER also has a multi-year strategic partnership with four-time World Champions Mercedes-AMG Petronas Motorsport as their Official Apparel Partner.

Tommy Hilfiger also delivered engaging partnerships geared toward the female consumer, enlisting Zendaya as a brand ambassador beginning in Spring 2019, helping raise the brand’s profile. The collaboration continued through our TOMMYNOW fashion show, starring TommyXZendaya in Fall 2019, which resulted in TOMMY HILFIGER being the #1 most talked about fashion brand at New York Fashion Week on Twitter. 

Calvin Klein Business

CALVIN KLEIN is a global lifestyle brand built on iconic essentials and powered by bold, progressive ideals. CALVIN KLEIN continues to generate compelling brand and cultural relevancy by evolving and driving consumer engagement. The CALVIN KLEIN brands are unified by a dedicated brand purpose with a focus on “defying the boundaries of self-expression.” 

We established a Consumer Marketing Organization (the “CMO”) in 2019, which encompasses the business’s marketing, communications, social media, celebrity dressing and special events, while also building personalized relationships and tailoring the overall consumer experience through highly specialized teams. We believe that this enhanced marketing approach will better meet our consumers’ needs as we adapt to their rapidly changing demands. 

We celebrated five decades of iconic brand history with a special capsule collection in 2019, which was accompanied by a marketing campaign featuring Justin Bieber back in his CALVIN KLEIN UNDERWEAR, alongside wife Hailey Bieber, musicians A$AP Rocky and Troye Sivan, and models Kendall Jenner and Liu Wen. We hosted events across Europe, Asia, Brazil, Mexico and Peru as part of the celebration. As well, core to the brand purpose, we created unique product moments, including a CALVIN KLEIN Pride capsule collection — a celebration of self-expression, confidence and inclusivity. The collection, which featured jeans, underwear, swimwear and accessories, was sold globally across all distribution channels. 

We continued to evolve our marketing strategy, shifting to a digital and video-first mindset by creating branded content and curated experiences to leverage across social media platforms. A highlight of 2019 was CALVIN KLEIN’s official sponsorship of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in California, where our Spring 2019 campaign came to life through an immersive experience offering the opportunity to interact with both product and branded content. The activation was recognized by Brandweek with its Constellation Award for best luxury/fashion team.

Calvin Klein also continued to leverage strategic partnerships by balancing global and regional brand ambassadors. Singer-actor Lay Zhang was named CALVIN KLEIN’s first-ever Chinese global ambassador, underscoring the significant long-term opportunity to grow CALVIN KLEIN’s footprint and gain market share across the region. In collaboration with the partnership, we hosted several experiential events, including a surprise performance for fans in Shanghai. 

Heritage Brands Business 

In our Heritage Brands business, we continued a partnership for Van Heusen with the UFC® that featured MMA fighter Stephen Thompson as brand ambassador. We also continued our largest media campaign to-date for IZOD that features Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers and comedian Colin Jost from Saturday Night Live.

We continue to promote our Heritage Brands business through sport sponsorships. Four-time PGA Tour winner Marc Leishman serves as brand ambassador for IZOD Golf, which includes wearing IZOD Golf apparel on-course. Olympic gold medalists and World No. 1 ranked men’s double tennis team, Bob and Mike Bryan continue to serve as brand ambassadors for IZOD. In addition, we have an all-brand, regional sponsorship relationship with the New York Giants.

 13

Trademarks

We own the TOMMY HILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN, Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, Warner’s, Olga, True&Co. and Geoffrey Beene brands, as well as related trademarks (e.g., the interlocking “IZ” logo for IZOD and the TOMMY HILFIGER flag logo and crest design) and lesser-known names. These trademarks are registered for use in each of the primary countries where our products are sold and additional applications for registration of these and other trademarks are made in jurisdictions to accommodate new marks, uses in additional trademark classes or additional categories of goods or expansion into new countries.

Mr. Tommy Hilfiger is prohibited in perpetuity from using, or authorizing others to use, the TOMMY HILFIGER marks (except for the use by Mr. Hilfiger of his name personally and in connection with certain specified activities). In addition, we are prohibited in perpetuity from selling products not ordinarily sold under the names of prestige designer businesses or prestige global lifestyle brands without Mr. Hilfiger’s consent, from engaging in new lines of business materially different from such types of lines of business without Mr. Hilfiger’s consent, or from disparaging or intentionally tarnishing the TOMMY HILFIGER-related marks or Mr. Hilfiger’s personal name. 

We own the CALVIN KLEIN marks and derivative marks in all trademark classes and for all product categories through our ownership of Calvin Klein Trademark Trust (“the Trust”), which is the sole and exclusive title owner of substantially all registrations of the CALVIN KLEIN trademarks. The sole purpose of the Trust is to hold these marks. Calvin Klein maintains and protects the marks on behalf of the Trust. The Trust licenses to Calvin Klein and Warnaco on an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual and royalty-free basis the use of the marks.

Mr. Calvin Klein retains the right to use his name, on a non-competitive basis, with respect to his right of publicity, unless those rights are already being used in the Calvin Klein business. Mr. Klein has also been granted a royalty-free worldwide right to use the CALVIN KLEIN mark with respect to certain personal businesses and activities, subject to certain limitations designed to protect the image and prestige of the CALVIN KLEIN brands and to avoid competitive conflicts.

Our trademarks are the subject of registrations and pending applications throughout the world for use on a variety of apparel, footwear and related products, as well as licensed product categories, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage and registration of new and related trademarks. In general, trademarks remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks continue to be used in connection with the products and services with which they are identified and, as to registered tradenames, the required registration renewals are filed. In markets where products bearing any of our brands are not sold by us or any of our licensees or other authorized users, our rights to the use of trademarks may not be clearly established.

Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are valuable assets and we vigorously seek to protect them on a worldwide basis against infringement. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. This is especially the case with respect to the TOMMY HILFIGER and CALVIN KLEIN brands, as these brands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and their generally higher pricing (as compared to our heritage brands) provides significant opportunity and incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. We have broad, proactive enforcement programs that we believe have been generally effective in controlling the sale of counterfeit products in the United States and in major markets abroad. 

Competition

The apparel industry is competitive as a result of its fashion orientation, mix of large and small producers, low barriers to entry, the flow of domestic and imported merchandise and the wide diversity of retailing methods. We compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands owners, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, including, in certain circumstances, the private label brands of our wholesale customers. Additionally, with the shift in consumer shopping preferences driving growth in the digital channel, there are more companies in the apparel sector and an increased level of transparency in pricing and product comparisons, which impacts purchasing decisions. As well, as consumers are increasingly focused on circularity with respect to apparel, companies that enable consumers to rent or purchase pre-owned apparel also impact purchasing decisions.

We believe we are well-positioned to compete in the apparel industry on the basis of style, quality, price and service. Our business depends on our ability to stimulate consumer tastes and demands, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in these areas. Our diversified portfolio of brands and products and our use of multiple channels of distribution have allowed us to develop a business that produces results that are not dependent on any one demographic group, merchandise preference, distribution channel or region. We have developed a portfolio of brands that appeals to a broad spectrum of consumers. Our owned brands have long histories and enjoy high recognition and awareness within their respective consumer segments. We 

 14

develop our owned and licensed brands to complement each other and to generate strong consumer loyalty. The worldwide recognition of the TOMMY HILFIGER and CALVIN KLEIN brands generally provide us with significant global opportunities and the opportunity to develop businesses that target different consumer groups at higher price points and in higher-end distribution channels than our heritage brands.

Imports and Import Restrictions

A substantial portion of our products is imported into the United States, Canada, Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America. These products are subject to various customs laws, which may impose tariffs, as well as quota restrictions. In addition, each of the countries in which our products are sold has laws and regulations covering imports. The United States and other countries in which our products are sold may impose, from time to time, new duties, tariffs, surcharges, or other import controls or restrictions, including the imposition of a “safeguard quota,” or adjust presently prevailing duty or tariff rates or levels. We, therefore, maintain a program of intensive monitoring of import restrictions and developments. We seek to minimize, where possible, our potential exposure to import related risks through, among other measures, adjustments in product design and fabrication, shifts of production among countries, including consideration of countries with tariff preference and free trade agreements, and manufacturers, and geographical diversification of our sources of supply. In some instances, production of a specific product category (e.g., swim goggles), component parts or raw materials may be highly concentrated in one country.

The United States and China are involved in a trade dispute that has seen the imposition in 2019 of significant additional tariffs on the products we sell that are imported into the United States from China. Please see our risk factor “We primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations” in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion.

Environmental Matters

Our facilities and operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. In addition, we may incur liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to the contamination of sites that we own or operate or previously owned or operated (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites, abutters or other persons) and the off-site disposal of hazardous materials. We believe our operations are in compliance with the terms of all applicable laws and regulations and our compliance with these laws and regulations has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, cash flows, earnings or competitive position.

Employees

As of February 2, 2020, we employed approximately 21,500 persons on a full-time basis and approximately 18,500 persons on a part-time basis. Approximately 2% of our employees were represented for the purpose of collective bargaining by four different unions in the United States. Additional persons, some represented by these four unions, are employed from time to time based upon our manufacturing schedules and retailing seasonal needs. Our collective bargaining agreements generally are for three-year terms. In some international markets, a significant percentage of employees are covered by governmental labor arrangements. We believe that our relations with our employees are good.

 15

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the name, age and position of each of our executive officers:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mr. Chirico joined us as Vice President and Controller in 1993. Mr. Chirico was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1999, President and Chief Operating Officer in 2005, Chief Executive Officer in 2006, and Chairman of the Board in 2007.

Mr. Larsson joined us as President in 2019. From 2015 until 2017, Mr. Larsson was President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of Ralph Lauren Corporation. From 2012 until 2015, he was the Global President of Old Navy, Inc., a division of The Gap, Inc.

Mr. Shaffer has been employed by us since 1990. He served as Senior Vice President, Retail Operations immediately prior to being named Executive Vice President, Finance in 2005, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2006, and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating & Financial Officer in 2012.

Mr. Duane served as President of our Izod division from 1998 until 2001, was named Vice Chairman, Sportswear in 2001, Vice Chairman, Wholesale Apparel in 2006, Chief Executive Officer, Wholesale Apparel in 2012, Chief Executive Officer, Heritage Brands and North America Wholesale in 2013, and Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Heritage Brands in 2018. Mr. Duane will relinquish his title and duties as Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Heritage Brands in June 2020, in advance of his retirement in February 2021.

Mr. Grieder has been employed by Tommy Hilfiger since 2004. He served as Chief Executive Officer, Tommy Hilfiger Europe from 2008 until 2014, prior to being named Chief Executive Officer, Tommy Hilfiger Global and PVH Europe in July 2014.

Ms. Abel-Hodges has been employed by us since 2006. She served as President of our Izod division from 2009 until 2015, President, The Underwear Group from 2015 until 2018, was named Group President, Calvin Klein North America and The Underwear Group in 2018, and Chief Executive Officer, Calvin Klein in 2019.

Mr. Fischer joined us as Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary in 1999. He became Senior Vice President in 2007 and Executive Vice President in 2013.

Mr. Kozel served as Vice President, Human Resources from 2003 until 2007, was named Senior Vice President, Human Resources in 2007, Executive Vice President, Human Resources in 2013, and Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer in 2015. 

 16

Item 1A. Risk Factors