PART I

ITEM 1.Business

General

Quanta Services, Inc. (Quanta) is a leading provider of specialty contracting services, delivering comprehensive infrastructure solutions for the electric power, energy and communications industries in the United States, Canada, Australia and select other international markets. The services we provide include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of infrastructure within each of the industries we serve, such as electric power transmission and distribution networks; substation facilities; pipeline transmission and distribution systems and facilities; refinery, petrochemical and industrial facilities; and telecommunications and cable multi-system operator networks. We have a workforce of approximately 40,300 employees as of December 31, 2019 and serve a diverse customer base. We believe our reputation for safety leadership, responsiveness and performance, geographic reach, comprehensive service offerings and financial strength have resulted in strong relationships with numerous customers, which include many of the leading companies in the industries we serve, and have positioned us to continue to take advantage of other opportunities. Our services are typically provided pursuant to master service agreements, repair and maintenance contracts and fixed price and non-fixed price installation contracts. Quanta is organized as a corporation under the laws of the State of Delaware and was formed in 1997.

We report our results under two reportable segments: (1) Electric Power Infrastructure Services and (2) Pipeline and Industrial Infrastructure Services. This structure is generally focused on broad end-user markets for our services. Our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 were $12.11 billion, of which 59% was attributable to the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment and 41% was attributable to the Pipeline and Industrial Infrastructure Services segment. 

We believe that our business strategies, along with our safety culture and financial strength, differentiate us from our competition and position us to capitalize on future capital spending by our customers. We offer comprehensive and diverse solutions on a broad geographic scale and have a solid base of long-standing customer relationships in each of the industries we serve. We also have an experienced management team, both at the executive level and within our operating units, and various proprietary technologies that enhance our service offerings. Our strategies of expanding our portfolio of service offerings for existing and potential customers, increasing our geographic, technological and training capabilities, promoting best practices and cross-selling services to our existing customers, as well as continuing to maintain our financial strength, place us in the position to capitalize on opportunities and trends in the industries we serve and expand our operations to select new markets. We continue to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions and investments to broaden our customer base, expand our geographic area of operations, grow our portfolio of services and increase opportunities across our operations.

Reportable Segments

The following is an overview of the types of services provided by each of our reportable segments. 

Electric Power Infrastructure Services Segment

The Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers in the electric power industry. Services performed by the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of electric power transmission and distribution infrastructure and substation facilities along with other engineering and technical services. This segment also provides emergency restoration services, including the repair of infrastructure damaged by inclement weather, the energized installation, maintenance and upgrade of electric power infrastructure utilizing unique bare hand and hot stick methods and our proprietary robotic arm techniques, and the installation of “smart grid” technologies on electric power networks. In addition, this segment provides services that support the development of renewable energy generation, including solar, wind, hydro power and backup natural gas generation facilities, and related switchyards and transmission infrastructure. This segment also provides comprehensive communications infrastructure services to wireline and wireless telecommunications companies, cable multi-system operators and other customers within the communications industry (including services in connection with 5G wireless deployment); services in connection with the construction of electric power generation facilities; and the design, installation, maintenance and repair of commercial and industrial wiring. This segment also includes the majority of our postsecondary educational institution, which specializes in pre-apprenticeship training, apprenticeship training and specialized utility task training for electric workers, as well as training for the pipeline and industrial and communications industries.

Pipeline and Industrial Infrastructure Services Segment

The Pipeline and Industrial Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive infrastructure solutions to customers involved in the development, transportation, distribution, storage and processing of natural gas, oil and other products. Services performed by the Pipeline and Industrial Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, upgrade, repair 

2

and maintenance of pipeline transmission and distribution systems, gathering systems, production systems, storage systems and compressor and pump stations, as well as related trenching, directional boring and mechanized welding services. In addition, this segment’s services include pipeline protection, integrity testing, rehabilitation and replacement, and the fabrication of pipeline support systems and related structures and facilities for natural gas utilities and midstream companies. We also provide high-pressure and critical-path turnaround services to the downstream and midstream energy markets and instrumentation and electrical services, piping, fabrication and storage tank services. To a lesser extent, this segment serves the offshore energy market and designs, installs and maintains fueling systems and water and sewer infrastructure.

Financial Information and Geographic Areas

We operate primarily in the United States; however, we derived $1.92 billion, $2.60 billion and $2.48 billion of our revenues from foreign operations during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. Of our foreign revenues, 75%, 76% and 79% were earned in Canada during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. In addition, we held property and equipment of $314.1 million and $304.0 million in foreign countries, primarily Canada, as of December 31, 2019 and 2018. 

Customers, Strategic Alliances and Preferred Provider Relationships

Our customers include electric power, energy and communications companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. We have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in the industries we serve, and we have developed strong strategic alliances with numerous customers and strive to develop and maintain our status as a preferred service provider to our customers. For the year ended December 31, 2019, our ten largest customers accounted for 34% of our consolidated revenues. Representative customers include:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Although we have a centralized marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. Our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenues. Many of these customer relationships are long-standing and are maintained through a partnering approach with centralized account management, which includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. Additionally, operating unit management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective customers. We also encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of our other operating units to their customers and coordinate with our other operating units to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complex. We believe our ability to provide services that cover a broad spectrum of our customers’ requirements is a significant differentiator. Our corporate-level business development and regional management groups support these activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that are capable of utilizing services from multiple operating units.

We are a preferred service provider for many of our customers, which means we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. We strive to maintain preferred status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the applicable customer. Furthermore, many of our strategic relationships with customers take the form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements, which typically extend for an initial term and may include renewal options to extend the initial term. Strategic alliance agreements also generally state an intention to work together over a period of time and/or on specific types of projects, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. 

3

Remaining Performance Obligations and Backlog

A performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer a distinct good or service. Our remaining performance obligations represent management’s estimate of consolidated revenues that are expected to be realized from the remaining portion of firm orders under fixed price contracts not yet completed or for which work has not yet begun, which includes estimated revenues attributable to consolidated joint ventures and variable interest entities (VIEs), revenues from funded and unfunded portions of government contracts to the extent they are reasonably expected to be realized, and revenues from change orders and claims to the extent management believes they will be earned and are probable of collection. 

We have also historically disclosed our backlog, a measure commonly used in our industry but not recognized under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). We believe this measure enables management to more effectively forecast our future capital needs and results and better identify future operating trends that may not otherwise be apparent. We believe this measure is also useful for investors in forecasting our future results and comparing us to our competitors. Our remaining performance obligations are a component of backlog, which also includes estimated orders under master service agreements (MSAs), including estimated renewals, and non-fixed price contracts expected to be completed within one year. Our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. 

Generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our MSAs, and most of our contracts can be terminated, on short notice even if we are not in default. We determine the estimated backlog for these MSAs using recurring historical trends, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications. In addition, many of our MSAs are subject to renewal, and these potential renewals are considered in determining estimated backlog. As a result, estimates for remaining performance obligations and backlog are subject to change based on, among other things, project accelerations; project cancellations or delays, including but not limited to those caused by commercial issues, regulatory requirements, natural disasters and adverse weather conditions; and final acceptance of change orders by customers. These factors can cause revenues to be realized in periods and at levels that are different than originally projected. 

As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, MSAs accounted for 53% and 53% of our estimated 12-month backlog and 61% and 60% of total backlog. 

The following table reconciles total remaining performance obligations to our backlog (a non-GAAP measure) by reportable segment, along with estimates of amounts expected to be realized within 12 months (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Competition

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. A significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important 

4

factor in the award of such agreements. Accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors. We believe that as demand for our services increases, customers often consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, safety ratings, financial and operational resources, geographic presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. In addition, competition may lessen as industry resources, such as labor supplies, approach capacity. There can be no assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. We also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we provide. Although these companies currently outsource a significant portion of these services, there can be no assurance that they will continue to do so in the future or that they will not acquire additional in-house capabilities.

Human Capital Resources

Employee Profile

Our operations are decentralized and labor-intensive, and therefore we rely on both management personnel and skilled labor personnel to successfully operate our business. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 40,300 employees, consisting of approximately 9,800 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and field personnel, and approximately 30,500 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects that are ongoing and planned at any particular time. Approximately 35% of our employees at December 31, 2019 were covered by collective bargaining agreements, which require the payment of specified wages, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multiemployer pension plans and employee benefit trusts. These collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates, and the majority contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewals, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement. 

Employee Benefits and Talent Development 

We provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We also have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible U.S. employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. We make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee’s contribution up to 3% of that employee’s salary and 50% of each employee’s contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee’s salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law.

We depend on our key personnel to successfully operate our business, including our executive officers, senior corporate management and management at our operating units. We focus on attraction and retention of these key personnel by offering competitive compensation packages, including employment agreements in certain circumstances, and opportunities for advancement. We have also implemented enterprise-wide talent development and succession planning programs designed to identify future and/or replacement candidates for key positions.

Employee Training and Safety

Our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen and specialty craft labor in certain geographic areas. Furthermore, the cyclical nature of the natural gas and oil industry can create shortages of qualified labor in those markets during periods of high demand. In order to take advantage of available opportunities and successfully implement our long-term strategy, we must be able to employ, train and retain the necessary skilled personnel. As a result, we support and utilize various training and educational programs and have developed additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs.

We own and operate Northwest Lineman College, which provides training programs for the electric power, pipeline and industrial and communications industries and specializes in pre-apprenticeship training, apprenticeship training and specialized utility task training for electric workers. We have also continued to invest in our internal education and training capabilities, including the expansion of our training facility to add training for beginning linemen, lead and cable splicing and directional drilling to our existing energized electric power and pipeline integrity training as well as a new formed gas distribution technician program. This facility provides classroom and on-the-job training programs and allows us to train employees in a controlled environment without the challenges of limited structure access and utility constraints. 

Additionally, we have entered into strategic relationships with universities, the military and unions in order to develop our workforce. For example, our operating units performing more sophisticated and technical jobs utilize, when applicable, training programs provided by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers/National Electrical Contractors Associations (IBEW/NECA) Apprenticeship Program, training programs sponsored by the four trade unions administered by the Pipe Line Contractors Association (PLCA), apprenticeship training programs sponsored by the Canadian Union of Skilled Workers (CUSW) or our equivalent programs. Under the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program, all journeyman linemen are required to complete classroom 

5

education and on-the-job training, as well as extensive testing and certification. Certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the U.S. Department of Labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program. Similarly, the CUSW offers apprenticeship training for construction and maintenance electricians and powerline technicians that requires classroom education and on-the-job training. In addition, the Laborers International Union of North America, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the United Association of Plumbers and Pipefitters and the International Union of Operating Engineers have training programs specifically designed for developing and improving the skills of their members who work in the pipeline construction industry. Our operating units also share best practices for training and educational programs.

Performance of our services requires the use of heavy equipment and exposure to inherently hazardous conditions. In response to these inherent hazards and as part of our commitment to the safety of our employees, customers and third parties, our corporate and operating unit management personnel have established safety programs, policies and procedures and training requirements for our employees both before they begin work and on an ongoing basis. For example, we have implemented an enterprise-wide Automated External Defibrillator (AED) program, which provides AEDs to all of our crews and training to enhance life safety response measures. Our operating units also share best practices for safety policies and practices.

Materials

Our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. However, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. As we continue to expand our comprehensive engineering, procurement and construction offerings, the cost of materials may become a proportionately larger component of our consolidated cost of services. We do not anticipate experiencing any significant procurement difficulties, as we purchase our required materials from a variety of sources. However, a number of factors that we may not be able to predict or control could result in increased costs for these materials, including general market and political conditions and global trade relationships. For example, recent changes in U.S. policies related to global trade and tariffs, as well as retaliatory trade measures implemented by other countries, have resulted in uncertainty regarding the availability and pricing of certain commodities and materials important to our and our customers’ businesses, including steel and aluminum. 

Regulation

Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including:

•licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors, electricians and engineers;

•regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection;

•permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects;

•wage and hour regulations;

•regulations relating to transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements;

•building and electrical codes; and

•special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects.

We believe that we are in compliance with all material licensing and regulatory requirements that are necessary to conduct our operations. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, as well as give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or disqualify us from future bidding opportunities. See Risks Related to Regulation and Compliance in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report) for further information regarding regulations applicable to our business. 

Environmental Matters and Climate-Related Impacts

We are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, liability can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties or currently owned properties at which hazardous substances or wastes were discharged or disposed of by a former owner or operator, regardless 

6

of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. The presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could also interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or use it as collateral for financing. In addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations or be subject to revocation of certain licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Our contracts with customers may also impose liability on us for environmental issues that arise through the performance of our services.

From time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance.

While the potential impact of climate-related changes on our operations is uncertain, management considers climate-related risks and opportunities in connection with its long-term strategic planning and short-term deployment of resources. For example, climate change may result in, among other things, increasing temperatures, rising sea levels and changes to patterns and intensity of wildfires, hurricanes, other storms and severe weather-related events and natural disasters. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, including in Item 1A. Risk Factors, our operating results are significantly influenced by weather, and these changes could significantly impact our future operating results. A greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions, as well as an increase in severe weather events and natural disasters, could reduce our productivity or result in project delays or cancellations. However, an increase in certain of these events, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, wildfires, blizzards and ice storms, can create a greater amount of emergency restoration service work and increase customer spending on modernization and other infrastructure improvements (e.g., fire hardening programs in California and the western United States). Additionally, changes in climate could result in more accommodating weather patterns for greater periods of time in certain areas, which may enable us to increase our productivity. Climate change may also affect the conditions in which we operate, and in some cases, expose us to potentially increased liabilities associated with those environmental conditions. For example, severe drought and high wind speeds in the western United States have increased the risk of wildfires during certain portions of the year, which in turn has exposed us and other contractors to increased risk of liability in connection with our operations in those locations. These conditions have also resulted in increased costs for wildfire-related third-party insurance and reduced the amount insurance carriers are willing to make available under such policies. 

Concerns about climate change could also result in potential new regulations, regulatory actions or requirements to fund energy efficiency activities, any of which could affect our customers and/or demand for our services. For example, any decrease in demand for fossil fuels could negatively impact demand for certain of our pipeline and industrial services. We also maintain a large fleet and a significant amount of construction machinery, all of which could be negatively impacted by new regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions from such sources. Furthermore, technological advancements, in response to regulatory changes or otherwise, could negatively impact our customers’ businesses or alter the services our customers require, which could in turn reduce demand for our services. However, these same regulatory and technological changes could necessitate new or expanded power generation and transmission infrastructure, which could provide additional opportunities for us.

Risk Management and Insurance

We are insured for employer’s liability, workers’ compensation, auto liability and general liability claims. Under these programs, the deductible for employer’s liability is $1.0 million per occurrence, the deductible for workers’ compensation is $5.0 million per occurrence, and the deductibles for auto liability and general liability are $10.0 million per occurrence. We manage and maintain a portion of our casualty risk through our wholly-owned captive insurance company, which insures all claims up to the amount of the applicable deductible of our third-party insurance programs. In connection with our casualty insurance programs, we are required to issue letters of credit to secure our obligations. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $0.5 million per claimant per year. 

Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. 

We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. In addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance based on the potential benefits considered relative to the cost of such insurance, or coverage may not be available at reasonable and competitive rates. For example, due to the increased occurrence and future risk of wildfires in the western United States, Australia and other areas in recent years, insurers have reduced coverage limits and increased the cost of insurance coverage for those events. In any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

7

Seasonality and Cyclicality

Our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. These variations are influenced by, among other things, weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, receipt of required regulatory approvals, permits and rights of way, project timing and schedules, and holidays. Please read the section entitled Significant Factors Impacting Results included in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Website Access and Other Information

Our website address is www.quantaservices.com. Interested parties may obtain free electronic copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading Investor Relations / SEC Filings or through the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) at www.sec.gov. These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. We will also make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC. For copies of this or any other Quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to Quanta Services, Inc., Attn: Corporate Secretary, 2800 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 2600, Houston, Texas 77056, or by phone at (713) 629-7600. 

Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information and make other public disclosures of information regarding Quanta through SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls, and our website. We also utilize social media to communicate this information, and it is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed material. Accordingly, we encourage investors, the media and others interested in our company to follow Quanta, and review the information we post, on the social media channels listed on our website in the Investors Relations / Social Media section.

This Annual Report, our website and our social media channels contain information provided by other sources that we believe is reliable. We cannot provide assurance that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. No information on our website or our social media channels is incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM 1A.Risk Factors