Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We are exposed to market risk from changes in the conditions in the global financial markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices and the creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers, which may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. We seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.

Interest Rates

From time to time, we may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. At December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding interest rate swaps, collars or options.

The information set forth in Note 15, “Derivatives and Hedging Activities,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption “Interest Rate Swaps,” is incorporated herein by reference.

See Note 16, “Fair Value Measurements and Other Financial Instruments,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details of the methodology and inputs used to determine the fair value of our fixed rate debt. The fair value of our fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. Generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease of $58 million in the fair value of the total debt balance at December 31, 2019. These changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt do not alter our obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount or any related interest of such debt.

Foreign Exchange Rates

Operations

As a large global organization, we face exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could materially impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in the future. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” above for the impacts foreign currency translation had on our operations.

Argentina

Economic events in Argentina, including the default on some of its international debt obligations, have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risks. As of July 1, 2018, Argentina was designated as a highly inflationary economy. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized $5 million of net foreign currency exchange losses in Foreign currency exchange loss due to highly inflationary economies on the Consolidated Statements of Operations, related to the designation of Argentina as a highly inflationary economy under U.S. GAAP. See Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. As of December 31, 2019, 1% of our consolidated net sales were derived from our products sold in Argentina and net assets include $9 million of cash and cash equivalents domiciled in Argentina. Also, as of December 31, 2019, our Argentina subsidiaries had cumulative translation losses of $24 million.

Russia

The U.S. and the European Union (EU) have imposed sanctions on various sectors of the Russian economy and on transactions with certain Russian nationals and entities. Russia has also announced economic sanctions against the U.S. and other nations that include a ban on imports of certain products. These sanctions are not expected to have a material impact on our business as much of the operations in Russia support local production; however, they may limit the amount of future business the Company does with customers involved in activities in Russia. As of December 31, 2019, we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact to our 2020 results of operations. As of December 31, 2019, 2% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into Russia and net assets include $18 million of cash and cash equivalents domiciled in Russia. Also, as of December 31, 2019, our Russia subsidiaries had cumulative translation losses of $27 million.

60

Brazil

Recent economic events in Brazil, including changes in the benchmark interest rate set by the Brazilian Central Bank, have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risks. However, as of December 31, 2019, we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact on our 2020 results of operations. As of December 31, 2019, 3% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into Brazil and net assets include $24 million of cash and cash equivalents. Also, as of December 31, 2019, our Brazil subsidiaries had cumulative translation losses of $38 million.

United Kingdom

On January 31, 2020, the United Kingdom (UK) exited the European Union (referred to as "Brexit"). The UK has agreed to abide by EU rules during a transition period until the end of the 2020, at which point the European Union and the UK expect to have agreements in place regarding future ties including trade, customs, commerce and travel. Although the UK and the EU continue to work out terms of the final arrangements and agreements, particularly around trade, the Company has taken steps to mitigate the impact of Brexit. The exit date was delayed several times as terms of the deal were developed, providing the Company, along with our customers and suppliers, additional time to execute action plans to mitigate the impact of Brexit. 

Brexit may impact the way we serve our customers in the UK and in Ireland, as we expect the UK's exit from the European Union to reduce efficiencies associated with serving customers in these countries from a central location. Over the last two years, we have deployed a cross-functional team to develop and implement changes to our operating model and legal entity structure to efficiently address challenges that may arise from Brexit including: customs processing and clearance, transit and logistics time and potential updates to terms and conditions present within our customer contracts. We continue to monitor inventory levels including any incremental stock that may be required to minimize disruptions to our business and our customers' business.

Brexit may also require us to tighten credit controls. However, for the year ended December 31, 2019, bad debt expense recognized in the UK was consistent with the year ended December 31, 2018 and was not material to the Company. In the first quarter of 2020, the Company will adopt ASU 2016-13, which requires us to measure all expected credit losses for trade receivable balances held at the reporting date based on an expected loss model which includes historical experience and current conditions. Future impacts of Brexit will be included in our analysis of current and forward looking expectations, though we believe the impact of adoption, coupled with Brexit will not have a material impact on bad debt expense. 

Given the implementation of Brexit we believe that the devaluation of the Sterling has stabilized, with the value of the currency increasing in the later part of 2019. Nevertheless, any further devaluation would have a negative impact on our financial results reported in US Dollars. As of December 31, 2019, we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact on our 2020 results of operations. As of December 31, 2019, 3% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into the UK, which is down from 4% in the prior year. We believe that the impact of Brexit on the country, including an overall weight on economic growth in the UK, did have an impact on net sales. Net assets in the UK include $6 million of cash and cash equivalents and $14 million in inventory. Also, as of December 31, 2019, our UK subsidiaries had cumulative translation adjustment losses of $21 million.

A large concentration of the Company's defined benefit plans is in the UK. Approximately 36% of the Company's projected benefit obligation and 47% of defined benefit plan assets are in the UK. Market volatility could have a negative impact on both our plan assets and our benefit obligations. However, we believe that the market and associated impacts on the value of our plan assets and assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation reflect the uncertainties related to Brexit. Our plan assets and obligations presented in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and in Note 17, "Profit Sharing, Retirement Savings Plan and Defined Benefit Plans," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are valued as of December 31, 2019. The Company and the Plans' Trustees have employed de-risking strategies in the defined benefit asset portfolios to reduce market volatility risk, interest rate risk and future cash flow risk. Our defined benefit assets in the UK are diversified between international equities, fixed income investments, and insurance buy-in contracts which all help mitigate market volatility risk. 

Impact of Inflation and Currency Fluctuation

Economic and political events in certain countries have exposed us to heightened levels of inflation and foreign currency exchange risks. The effects of these could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. See Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details regarding the impact of inflation and currency fluctuation. Also, for a discussion of our risk factors, please refer to Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”

61

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts

We use foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amounts payable or receivable on some transactions denominated in foreign currencies. A hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at December 31, 2019 would have caused us to pay approximately $32 million to terminate these contracts. Based on our overall foreign exchange exposure, we estimate this change would not materially affect our financial position and liquidity. The effect on our results of operations would be substantially offset by the impact of the hedged items.

Our foreign currency forward contracts are described in Note 15, “Derivatives and Hedging Activities,” which is contained in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, is incorporated herein by reference.

Net Investment Hedge

The €400 million 4.50% notes issued in June 2015 are designated as a net investment hedge, hedging a portion of our net investment in a certain European subsidiary against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The decrease in the translated value of the debt was $2 million net of tax as of December 31, 2019, and is reflected in long-term debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

In March 2015, we entered into a series of cross-currency swaps with a combined notional amount of $425 million, hedging a portion of the net investment in a certain European subsidiary against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. As a result of the sale of Diversey, we terminated these cross-currency swaps in September 2017 and settled these swaps in October 2017. The fair value of the swaps on the date of termination was a liability of $62 million which was partially offset by semi-annual interest settlements of $18 million. This resulted in a net impact of $(44) million recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss ("AOCL").

For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedges of net investments in foreign operations, settlements and changes in fair values of the derivative instruments are recognized in unrealized net gains or loss on derivative instruments for net investment hedge, a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of taxes, to offset the changes in the values of the net investments being hedged. Any portion of the net investment hedge that is determined to be ineffective is recorded in other income, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Other Derivative Instruments

We may use other derivative instruments from time to time to manage exposure to foreign exchange rates and to access to international financing transactions. These instruments can potentially limit foreign exchange exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency.

Outstanding Debt

Our outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrower or in euros as is the case with the issuance of €400 million of 4.50% senior notes due 2023. We believe that this enables us to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. The US Dollar equivalent amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar was $500 million and $590 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Customer Credit

We are exposed to credit risk from our customers. In the normal course of business, we extend credit to our customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the failure of our customers to make required payments. An additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates. The allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio.

Our customers may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Our provision for bad debt expense was $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 and less than $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $8 million and $9 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

62

Pensions

Many of our U.S. and International defined benefit pension plans are invested in assets which will be used to cover future benefit payments. Assets may include investments in mutual funds, collective investment trusts, index-funds, corporate bonds, government-backed bonds and insurance contracts or annuity or "buy-ins." The assets include both return seeking assets and liability-hedging assets. As the population of the plan participants age and future cash flows become more certain, we undertake asset de-risking initiatives, including the purchase of buy-in contracts, particularly in the United Kingdom. These investments provide a stream of income equal to future benefit payments for pre-defined groups of participants, however, the Company maintains the primary liability for the projected benefit obligation related to these groups. As of December 31, 2019, buy-in contracts represented $120 million, or 16% of the Company's total plan assets. Additionally, our plan assets may, from time to time, be invested in assets designed to diversify the investment portfolio and protect against equity market movements. Some of these assets may only be redeemed on a quarterly basis. As of December 31, 2019, equity diversifying assets represented $55 million, or 7% of the Company's total plan assets. Other than the buy-in contracts and equity diversifiers noted above, we believe that our plan assets are highly liquid and may be readily redeemed to cover necessary plan payments. There is a high degree of predictability of payments made from our defined benefit plans. 

Based upon the annual valuation of our defined benefit pension plans at December 31, 2019, we expect net periodic benefit expense to be less than $1 million in 2020. See Note 17, “Profit Sharing, Retirement Savings Plans and Defined Benefit Pension Plans,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on our defined benefit pension plans.

Commodities

We use various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with our manufacturing processes. Generally, we acquire these components at market prices in the region in which they will be used and do not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. Moreover, we seek to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. We do not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. As a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components.

63

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data