Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The information in this MD&A should be read together with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes set forth in Part II, Item 8, as well as the discussion included in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars are in millions, except per share amounts.

Non-U.S. GAAP Information

We present financial information that conforms to U.S. GAAP. We also present financial information that does not conform to U.S. GAAP, as our management believes it is useful to investors. In addition, non-U.S. GAAP measures are used by management to review and analyze our operating performance and, along with other data, as internal measures for setting annual budgets and forecasts, assessing financial performance, providing guidance and comparing our financial performance with our peers. It does not purport to represent any similarly titled U.S. GAAP information and is not an indicator of our performance under U.S. GAAP. Investors are cautioned against placing undue reliance on these non-U.S. GAAP measures. Further, investors are urged to review and consider carefully the adjustments made by management to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure to arrive at these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, described below.

Our management assesses our financial results both on a U.S. GAAP basis and on a non-U.S. GAAP basis, as management believes it is useful to investors. Non-U.S. GAAP financial measures also provide management with additional means to understand and evaluate the core operating results and trends in our ongoing business by eliminating certain expenses and/or gains (which may not occur in each period presented) and other items that management believes might otherwise make comparisons of our ongoing business with prior periods and peers more difficult, obscure trends in ongoing operations or reduce management’s ability to make useful forecasts. 

Our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures may also be considered in calculations of our performance measures set by the Organization and Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors for purposes of determining incentive compensation. The non-U.S. GAAP financial metrics exclude items that we consider to be certain specified items (“Special Items”), such as restructuring charges and restructuring associated costs, certain transaction and other charges related to acquisitions and divestitures, gains and losses related to acquisitions and divestitures, special tax items or tax benefits (collectively, “Tax Special Items”) and certain other items. We evaluate unusual or Special Items on an individual basis. Our evaluation of whether to exclude an unusual or special item for purposes of determining our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures considers both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the item, including among other things (i) its nature, (ii) whether or not it relates to our ongoing business operations, and (iii) whether or not we expect it to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis.

Our calculation of these non-U.S. GAAP measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences between companies in the method of calculation. As a result, the use of these non-U.S. GAAP measures has limitations and should not be considered superior to, in isolation from, or as a substitute for, related U.S. GAAP measures. 

When we present forward-looking guidance, we do not also provide guidance for the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures, as they are not available without unreasonable effort due to the high variability, complexity, and low visibility with respect to certain Special Items, including gains and losses on the disposition of businesses, the ultimate outcome of certain legal or tax proceedings, foreign currency gains or losses resulting from the volatile currency market in Argentina, and other unusual gains and losses. These items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could be material to our results computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

 Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin

Adjusted EBITDA is defined as Earnings before Interest Expense, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, adjusted to exclude the impact of Special Items. Management uses Adjusted EBITDA as one of many measures to assess the performance of the business. Additionally, Adjusted EBITDA is the performance metric used by the Company's chief operating decision maker to evaluate performance of our reportable segments. Adjusted EBITDA is also a metric used to determine performance in the Company's Annual Incentive Plan. We do not believe there are estimates underlying the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA, other than those inherent in our U.S. GAAP results of operations, which would render the use and presentation of Adjusted EBITDA misleading. While the nature and amount of individual Special Items vary from period to period, we believe our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA is applied consistently to all periods and, in conjunction with other U.S. GAAP and non-U.S. GAAP measures, provides a useful and consistent comparison of our Company's performance to other periods. In our evaluation of Adjusted EBITDA, management assumes that gain/losses related to Special Items may not be reflective of our core operating results. 

31

The following table shows a reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Net Earnings from continuing operations to non-U.S. GAAP Total Company Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company may also assess performance using Adjusted EBITDA Margin. Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated as Adjusted EBITDA divided by net trade sales. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA Margin is one useful measure to assess the profitability of sales made to third parties and the efficiency of our core operations.

Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted Earnings Per Share

Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted Earnings Per Share (“Adjusted EPS”) are also used by the Company to measure total company performance. Adjusted Net Earnings is defined as U.S. GAAP net earnings from continuing operations excluding the impact of Special Items and the expense or benefit from any special taxes or Tax Special Items. Adjusted EPS is defined as our Adjusted Net Earnings divided by the number of diluted shares outstanding. We believe that Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted EPS are useful measurements of Company performance, along with other U.S. GAAP and non-U.S. GAAP measures, because they incorporate non-cash items of depreciation and amortization, including stock-based compensation, which impact the overall performance and Net Earnings of our business. Additionally, Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted EPS reflect the impact of our Adjusted Tax Rate and interest expense on a net and per share basis. While the nature and amount of individual Special Items vary from period to period, we believe our calculation of Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted EPS is applied consistently to all periods and, in conjunction with other U.S. GAAP and non-U.S. GAAP measures, provide a useful and consistent comparison of our Company's performance to other periods. In our evaluation of Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted EPS, management assumes that gain/losses related to Special Items and Tax Special Items may not be reflective of our core operating results. 

The following table shows a reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings per Share from continuing operations to Non-U.S. GAAP Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted EPS from continuing operations.

32

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Net earnings per common share are calculated under the two-class method.

(2) Includes Pre-tax Special Items, less Tax Special Items and the tax impact of Special Items as seen in the following calculation of non-U.S. GAAP Adjusted income tax rate.

Adjusted Tax Rate

We also present our adjusted income tax rate (“Adjusted Tax Rate”). The Adjusted Tax Rate is a measure of our U.S. GAAP effective tax rate, adjusted to exclude the tax impact from the Special Items that are excluded from our Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted EPS metrics as well as expense or benefit from any special taxes or Tax Special Items. The Adjusted Tax Rate is an indicator of the taxes on our core business. The tax circumstances and effective tax rate in the specific countries where the excluded or Special Items occur will determine the impact (positive or negative) to the Adjusted Tax Rate. While the nature and amount of Tax Special Items vary from period to period, we believe our calculation of the Adjusted Tax Rate is applied consistently to all periods and, in conjunction with evaluation of our U.S. GAAP effective income tax rate, provide a useful and consistent comparison of the impact that tax expense has on our Company's performance. In our evaluation of our Adjusted Tax Rate, management assumes that Tax Special Items may not be reflective of our tax on our core operations.

The following table shows our calculation of the non-U.S. GAAP Adjusted income tax rate:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

33

(2) The tax rate used to calculate the tax impact of Special Items is based on the jurisdiction in which the charge was recorded.

Net Sales by Geographic Region and Net Sales by Segment

In our “Net Sales by Geographic Region,” “Net Sales by Segment” and in some of the discussions and tables that follow, we exclude the impact of foreign currency translation when presenting net sales information, which we define as “constant dollar” and we exclude acquisitions in the first year after closing, divestiture activity and the impact of foreign currency translation when presenting net sales information, which we define as "organic." Changes in net sales excluding the impact of foreign currency translation are non-U.S. GAAP financial measures. As a worldwide business, it is important that we take into account the effects of foreign currency translation when we view our results and plan our strategies. Nonetheless, we cannot control changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Consequently, when our management looks at our financial results to measure the core performance of our business, we may exclude the impact of foreign currency translation by translating our current period results at prior period foreign currency exchange rates. We also may exclude the impact of foreign currency translation when making incentive compensation determinations. As a result, our management believes that these presentations are useful internally and may be useful to investors. 

Refer to these specific tables presented later in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Business and Reportable Segments

Sealed Air is in business to protect, to solve critical packaging challenges and to leave our world better than we found it. Our portfolio of leading packaging solutions includes Cryovac® brand food packaging, Sealed Air® brand protective packaging and Bubble Wrap® brand packaging, which collectively enable a safer, more efficient food supply chain and protect valuable goods shipped around the world. We serve an array of end markets including food and beverage processing, food service, retail, and commercial and consumer applications. In the markets we serve, we leverage our iconic brands, leading market positions, differentiated technologies, global scale/market access, and well-established customer relationships. 

The Company’s segment reporting structure consists of two reportable segments, Food Care and Product Care, and a Corporate category. The Company’s Food Care and Product Care segments are considered reportable segments under FASB ASC Topic 280. Our reportable segments are aligned with similar groups of products and customers. Corporate includes certain costs that are not allocated to or monitored by the reportable segments' management. See Note 6, “Segments,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Executive Summary of 2019

Sealed Air continues to execute on its Reinvent SEE strategy that is transforming how the Company innovates, operates and solves our customers' most critical challenges. Through our focus on the 4P'SSM of Reinvent SEE, Performance, People, Products, Process and Sustainability, we are leveraging our recognized Cyrovac® and BubbleWrap® brands to fuel future growth opportunities in core and adjacent markets. We believe our efforts to increase recyclability, reusability and recycled or renewable content creates a competitive advantage. The 4P’SSM of Reinvent SEE are driving structural changes throughout the organization with a focus on productivity improvements. 

During the year, Reinvent SEE structural changes include $168 million in benefits, of which $67 million was reflected in restructuring savings to delayer and simplify the organization, $64 million benefited operating costs and $37 million favorably impacted price/cost spread. Operating costs benefits were largely driven by material substitution and alternate raw material qualifications, savings on indirect spend, SG&A efficiencies, logistics process improvements, yield improvements and gauge optimization. Additionally, we are seeing benefits from manufacturing network optimization reflected in these operating costs. Price/cost spread benefits reflect procurement savings and value capture initiatives on price. 

For the year ended December 31, 2019, we incurred approximately $102 million, or $76 million net of tax, in restructuring and restructuring associated charges primarily related to our Reinvent SEE initiatives. Cash payments, including restructuring payments related to Reinvent SEE and legacy programs, were $91 million. Given the success to date, and the Reinvent SEE initiatives being implemented, we now anticipate that over the 3-year period of the program (2019-2021) we will realize approximately $330 million in benefits, which is an increase of $80 million compared to previous estimates. The full year benefits on Adjusted EBITDA from Reinvent SEE were partially offset by negative foreign currency and higher expense associated with labor inflation, incentive compensation and investments in the business. See Note 12, “Restructuring 

34

Activities,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding each of the Company’s restructuring programs.

The R&D and capital investments we are making in the business are aligned with our sustainability goals. Through our 2025 Sustainability Pledge, we expect to deliver approximately 50% of our product offerings containing recyclable or reusable solutions by 2023 and are targeting 100% by 2025. By applying materials science, we are designing and advancing packaging materials to be recyclable or reusable and contain more recycled or renewable content. We are involved in collaborations with partners worldwide to increase circularity. For example, in Food Care, the majority of our Case Ready portfolio already meets recyclability requirements. We continue to innovate our materials to lighten the weight and/or increase recyclable or renewable content, while at the same time, maintaining the high-performance standards our Cryovac® brand food packaging represents around the world. In Product Care, our fully recyclable cushioned mailer portfolio and our paper-based products are gaining traction in EMEA. In 2019, we launched new recyclable BubbleWrap® brand cushioning in North America with 90% recycled content. Both our BubbleWrap® brand cushioning and our Stealthwrap® shrink film were certified for store-drop off recycling in 2019. Stealthwrap® automated packaging system replaces larger, heavier, secondary boxes and provides improved efficiency by reducing dimensional weigh during distribution.

In 2019, we completed the acquisition of Automated Packaging Systems (“Automated”) and the integration is underway. Known for its Autobag® brand, Automated provides unique and innovative solutions, complete with automated equipment, advanced materials, engineering, and field service. Automated is complementary to our protective packaging solutions for e-commerce and fulfillment operations and offers us adjacent opportunities in the food packaging sector, including e-foods, produce, snack foods, and portion-controlled meals. Since the acquisition was closed on August 1, 2019, Automated generated $117 million in net sales and contributed $13 million in Adjusted EBITDA through December 31, 2019. We have already identified cross-selling opportunities and have begun to realize operating cost efficiencies. The Company has recognized integration related expenses of approximately $9 million in 2019. Transaction related expenses were approximately $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Net consideration transferred for the purchase of Automated was $446 million. See Note 5, “Discontinued Operations, Divestitures and Acquisitions,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding each of the Company’s acquisitions. 

In 2019, the Company's overall net sales increased $58 million or 1%, primarily driven by contributions from our acquisition of Automated in 2019 and the incremental benefit from our acquisition of AFP in 2018. Foreign currency had a negative impact on net sales of $137 million or 3%. Excluding currency headwinds, Food Care net sales increased $80 million or 3% due to favorable volume and pricing trends and contribution from two acquisitions. In Product Care, net sales increased $86 million or 5%, including $178 million from the Automated and AFP acquisitions noted above. Contributions from acquisitions were offset by weakness in our protective packaging markets, particularly where we have exposure to the industrial and manufacturing slowdown and ongoing trade disputes, resulting in volume decline of $72 million or 4%. See Note 3, “Revenue Recognition, Contracts with Customers,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding revenue recognition.

Business Environment and Overview

We employ sales, marketing and customer service personnel throughout the world who sell and market our products to and through a large number of distributors, fabricators, converters, e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and contract packaging firms as well as directly to end-users such as food processors, food service businesses, supermarket retailers, lodging, retail pharmaceutical companies, healthcare facilities, medical device manufacturers, and other manufacturers. We have no material long-term contracts for the distribution of our products. In 2019, no customer or affiliated group of customers accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales. Additionally, in 2019, no customer or affiliated group of customers accounted for more than 10% of net sales in either of our reporting segments. 

Historically, net sales in our Food Care segment have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter, due to holiday events. Net sales in our Product Care segment have also tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and higher in the mid-third quarter and through the fourth quarter due to the holiday shopping season. On a consolidated basis, there is little seasonality in the business with net sales slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter. Our consolidated net earnings typically trend directionally the same as our net sales seasonality though may be difficult to predict if significant one-time transactions, events or non-recurring charges were to impact our business. Cash flow from operations tends to be higher in the second half of the year, reflecting seasonality of sales and working capital changes, including the timing of certain annual incentive compensation payments.

35

Other factors may outweigh the effects of seasonal changes in our net earnings results including, but not limited to, changes in raw materials and other costs, foreign exchange rates, interest rates, taxes and the timing and amount of acquisition synergies and restructuring and other non-recurring charges.

Competition for most of our packaging products is based primarily on packaging performance characteristics, automation, service and price. Since competition is also based upon innovations in packaging technology, we maintain ongoing research and development programs to enable us to maintain technological leadership. Competition is both global and regional in scope and includes numerous small, local competitors with limited product portfolios and geographic reach. For more details, see “Competition” included in Part I, Item 1 “Business.”

Our net sales are sensitive to developments in our customers’ business or market conditions, changes in the global economy, and the effects of foreign currency translation. Our costs can vary materially due to changes in input costs, including petrochemical-related costs (primarily resin costs), which are not within our control. Consequently, our management focuses on reducing those costs that we can control and using petrochemical-based and other raw materials as efficiently as possible. We also believe that our global presence helps to insulate us from localized changes in business conditions.

We manage our businesses to generate substantial operating cash flow. We believe that our operating cash flow will permit us to continue to spend on innovative research and development and to invest in our business by means of capital expenditures for property, equipment and acquisitions. Moreover, we expect that our ability to generate substantial operating cash flow should provide us with the flexibility to repay debt and to return capital to our stockholders.

Recent Events and Trends

The Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) is having an impact on overall economic conditions. Currently, the greatest impact is in China and Asia Pacific, which has the highest concentration of transmission. We have eight manufacturing facilities in China with approximately 1,100 employees. China accounted for approximately 3% of sales in 2019. COVID-19 may impact other geographic areas in which we have operations. Our top priority is to protect our people and their families, our customers, and our operations from any adverse impacts. We are taking all precautionary measures as directed by health authorities and the local government. COVID-19 has and may continue to have an impact on ports and trade into and out of China and Hong Kong as well as travel in the region and globally. Sealed Air has set up a special management committee covering all businesses and sites in the region. The committee is taking the necessary precautionary measures to protect the health and safety of our employees and following the guidance provided by local health authorities. Given the interconnectivity of the global supply chain and global economy or the rate of future global transmission, the impact of COVID-19 may extend beyond the Asia Pacific region. 

36

Highlights of Financial Performance

Below are the highlights of our financial performance for the three years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

# Denotes a variance greater than or equal to 100% or equal to or less than (100)%. 

(1) See "Non-U.S. GAAP Information” for a reconciliation of U.S. GAAP net earnings from continuing operations to non-U.S. GAAP Total Company Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations.

(2) See “Non-U.S. GAAP Information” for a reconciliation of U.S. GAAP net earnings and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to our non-U.S. GAAP Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted EPS from continuing operations.

Foreign Currency Translation Impact on Consolidated Financial Results

Since we are a U.S. domiciled company, we translate our foreign currency-denominated financial results into US Dollars. Due to the changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the US Dollar, translating our financial results from foreign currencies to US Dollars may result in a favorable or unfavorable impact. Historically, the most significant currencies that have impacted the translation of our consolidated financial results are the euro, the Australian dollar, the Mexican peso, the British pound, the Canadian dollar, the Brazilian real and the Chinese Renminbi.

The following table presents the approximate favorable or (unfavorable) impact foreign currency translation had on certain of our consolidated financial results: 

37

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Sales by Geographic Region

As part of the Company's Reinvent SEE strategy, we have evaluated and made adjustments to our regional operating model. As of January 1, 2019, our geographic regions are: North America, EMEA, South America and APAC. Our North American operations include Canada, the United States, Mexico and Central America. Mexico and Central America were previously included in Latin America.

The following tables present the components of the change in net sales by geographic region for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared with 2018 and for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared with 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Our volume reported above includes the net impact of changes in unit volume as well as the period-to-period change in the mix of products sold.

38

Net Sales by Segment

The following tables present the components of change in net sales by our segment reporting structure for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared with 2018 and for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared with 2017.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Our volume reported above includes the net impact of changes in unit volume as well as the period-to-period change in the mix of products sold.

Food Care

2019 compared with 2018

As reported, net sales decreased $28 million, or 1%, in 2019 compared with 2018. Foreign currency had a negative impact of $107 million. On a constant dollar basis, net sales increased $80 million, or 3%, in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to the following:

•favorable price of $33 million, primarily in South America driven by US dollar-based indexed pricing, partially offset by North America, which was driven by formula-based pricing;

•higher volume of $30 million, primarily in North America, South America and APAC, partially offset by EMEA; and

•contributions from acquisition activities of $17 million. 

2018 compared with 2017

As reported, net sales increased $93 million, or 3% in 2018 compared with 2017. On a constant dollar basis, net sales increased $145 million, or 5% in 2018 compared with 2017 primarily due to the following:

39

•favorable price of approximately $79 million, primarily in South America driven by US dollar-based indexed pricing and North America; and

•higher volume of approximately $67 million across all regions.

Product Care

2019 compared with 2018

As reported, net sales increased $86 million, or 5%, in 2019 compared with 2018. On a constant dollar basis, net sales increased $116 million, or 6% in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to the following:

•$178 million increase in sales due to acquisitions of Automated Packaging Systems and AFP through the first 12 months in which they were under Sealed Air ownership; and

•favorable price of $10 million, primarily in North America;

This was partially offset by:

•lower volume of $72 million, primarily driven by macroeconomic headwinds, particularly in the industrial sector. 

2018 compared with 2017

As reported, net sales increased $178 million, or 11%, in 2018 compared with 2017, of which $9 million was due to positive currency impact. On a constant dollar basis, net sales increased $169 million, or 10% in 2018 compared with 2017 primarily due to the following:

•$114 million increase in sales due to the acquisitions of Fagerdala and AFP;

•favorable price of $37 million primarily in North America; and 

•higher volumes of $18 million primarily in North America and EMEA.

Cost of Sales

Cost of sales for three years ended December 31, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2019 compared with 2018

As reported, cost of sales was relatively flat in 2019 as compared to 2018. Cost of sales was impacted by favorable foreign currency translation of $98 million. On a constant dollar basis, cost of sales increased $94 million, or 3%, primarily on a higher sales base. As a percentage of net sales, cost of sales decreased by 100 basis points, from 68.3% for the year ended December 31, 2018 to 67.3% for the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily due to improvements resulting from our Reinvent SEE initiatives, including productivity improvements and restructuring savings, as well as lower input costs benefiting our price/cost spread.

2018 compared with 2017

As reported, cost of sales increased by $181 million, or 6%, in 2018 as compared to 2017. Cost of sales was impacted by favorable foreign currency translation of $32 million. On a constant dollar basis, cost of sales increased $213 million, or 7.0%, primarily due to higher raw material costs on increased sales volumes, non-material inflation and freight costs and increased costs due to acquisitions. Cost of sales as a percentage of our net sales was consistent in both years.

40

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses for three years ended December 31, are included in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 compared with 2018 

As reported, SG&A expenses increased $133 million, or 17%, in 2019 as compared to 2018. SG&A expenses were impacted by favorable foreign currency translation of $16 million. On a constant dollar basis, SG&A expenses increased approximately $150 million, or 19%. The increase in SG&A expenses is a result of $60 million in restructuring associated charges primarily related to our Reinvent SEE initiatives, a $59 million charge related to a settlement agreement with Novipax (See Note 20, “Commitments and Contingencies,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding the Novipax settlement), incremental SG&A expense from recent acquisitions, including Automated and AFP, of $39 million and approximately $11 million due to higher incentive compensation expense. Restructuring associated charges described above primarily relate to fees paid to third-party consultants in support of Reinvent SEE and costs related to property consolidations resulting from Reinvent SEE.

These expenses were partially offset by benefits attributable to our Reinvent SEE initiatives.

2018 compared with 2017

As reported, SG&A expenses decreased $33 million, or 4%, in 2018 as compared to 2017. SG&A expenses were impacted by favorable foreign currency translation of $1 million. On a constant dollar basis, SG&A expenses decreased $34 million, or 4%. This was primarily driven by higher costs in the prior year due to the sale of Diversey.

Amortization Expense of Intangible Assets Acquired

Amortization expense of intangible assets acquired for the years ended December 31, were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in amortization expense of intangibles for the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily related to the acquisition of Automated. The most significant impact on year over year increase in amortization expense was backlog acquired in the Automated purchase which was amortized over 5 months. The Company also acquired intangibles related to technology, trademarks and tradenames and customer relationships from Automated. 

The increase in amortization expense of intangibles for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 was primarily related to the acquisition of Fagerdala.

See Note 5, “Discontinued Operations, Divestitures and Acquisitions,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding the Company's recent acquisitions. 

Reinvent SEE Strategy and Restructuring Activities

See Note 12, “Restructuring Activities,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding the Company’s restructuring programs discussed below.

41

In December 2018 the Sealed Air Board of Directors approved a three-year restructuring program related to Reinvent SEE. 

Sealed Air has combined the program associated with Reinvent SEE with its previously existing restructuring program (as combined, “Program”) which was largely related to the elimination of stranded costs following the sale of Diversey. For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Program generated incremental cost savings of $64 million related to reductions in operating costs, $67 million related to restructuring actions and $37 million related to actions impacting price cost spread. We now expect the Program to generate incremental cost savings of approximately $330 million by the end of 2021. We expect remaining Program spend between $80 and $110 million, primarily incurred in 2020. 

For the year ended December 31, 2019, we recorded restructuring expense of $42 million. Restructuring activities are diversified across all four regions. In 2019, restructuring had the largest impact on our second quarter results, during which we recognized approximately 70% of the restructuring expense recorded during the year. During the fourth quarter, we recorded a net restructuring reversal of $2 million. The reversal was related to management's fourth quarter decision to no longer cease operations in one of our manufacturing facilities as well as the reversal of a number of headcount-reduction accruals incurred earlier in the year. 

We also recorded $60 million in restructuring associated costs for the year ended December 31, 2019. Restructuring associated costs primarily relate to fees paid to third-party consultants in support of Reinvent SEE and costs associated with property consolidations and machinery and equipment relocations resulting from Reinvent SEE.

The actual timing of future costs and cash payments related to the Program described above are subject to change due to a variety of factors that may cause a portion of the costs, spending and benefits to occur later than expected. In addition, changes in foreign exchange rates may impact future costs, spending, benefits and cost synergies.

Interest Expense, net

Interest expense, net includes the stated interest rate on our outstanding debt, as well as the net impact of capitalized interest, interest income, the effects of terminated interest rate swaps and the amortization of capitalized senior debt issuance costs and credit facility fees, bond discounts, and terminated treasury locks.

Interest expense, net for the years ended December 31, was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) We repaid the notes upon maturity in July 2017.

42

(2) On August 1, 2019, Sealed Air Corporation, on behalf of itself and certain of its subsidiaries, and Sealed Air Corporation (US) entered into an amendment to its existing senior secured credit facility with Bank of America, N.A., as agent, and the other financial institutions party thereto. The amendment provided for a new incremental term facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $475 million, to be used, in part, to finance the acquisition of Automated. See Note 14, "Debt and Credit Facilities," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

(3) On July 12, 2018, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a third amended and restated credit agreement with respect to its existing senior secured credit facility. See Note 14, “Debt and Credit Facilities,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

(4) In November 2019, the Company issued $425 million of 4.00% Senior Notes due 2027 and used the proceeds to retire the existing $425 million of 6.50% Senior Notes due 2020. See Note 14, "Debt and Credit Facilities," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

Other (Expense) Income, net

Brazil Tax Credits

Cryovac Brasil Ltda., a Sealed Air subsidiary, received a final decision from the Brazilian court regarding a claim in which Sealed Air contended that certain indirect taxes paid were calculated on an incorrect amount. As a result of this case, the Company expects to receive credits on indirect tax payments in future periods. During the second quarter of 2019, the Company filed a return claim for the tax years of 2015 through 2018; as such, the Company has recorded $4.8 million to other (expense) income, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the second quarter. Pending future and final judicial decisions to be made by the Brazilian Supreme Court, the Company may be able to claim an overpayment of indirect taxes paid prior to 2015, including for the tax years 2010 - 2014 for which the Company has prepared documentation. Subsequent claims may result in material future credits; however, these amounts cannot be estimated at this time. The Company will record income for future credits once the amounts are realizable.

Loss on debt redemption

In November 2019, Sealed Air issued $425 million of 4.00% Senior Notes due December 2027. The proceeds were used to repurchase $425 million 6.50% Senior Notes due December 2020. We recognized a $16 million pre-tax loss on the transaction. The loss was primarily driven by the breakage fee on the bond redemption. See Note 14, "Debt and Credit Facilities," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

See Note 23, “Other (Expense) Income, net,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the components and discussion of other income, net.

Income Taxes

The table below shows our effective income tax rate (“ETR”).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2019 was 20.7%. The difference between the Company's effective income tax rate and the U.S. statutory rate of 21% relates primarily to benefits related to tax optimization initiatives associated with Reinvent SEE and restructuring activities, prior year research credits and a reduction in the valuation allowance offset by expense related to unrecognized tax benefits and the global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) provisions. 

Our effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2018 was 67.2%. The TCJA had a significant impact on our income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2018. The 2018 effective tax rate includes the benefit of a lower U.S. corporate income tax rate of 21% and also reflects $222 million of expense for tax related to the one-time mandatory tax on previously deferred foreign earnings of U.S subsidiaries under TCJA ("Transition Tax"). The difference between the Company’s effective income tax rate and the U.S. statutory rate of 21% relates primarily to the Transition Tax associated with 

43

the TCJA, the (“GILTI”) provision enacted as part of the TCJA, state income taxes, and foreign earnings subject to higher tax rates, offset by tax benefit for reduction in valuation allowance related to tax initiatives.

Our effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2017 was 84.0%. The annual effective income tax rate is higher than the statutory rate primarily as a result of expense related to the sale of Diversey, the revaluation of deferred tax assets as a result of the TCJA and an increase in unrecognized foreign tax benefits.

Our effective income tax rate depends upon the realization of our net deferred tax assets. We have deferred tax assets related to accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards, tax credits, employee benefit items, intangibles and other items.

The Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) is currently auditing the 2011-2014 consolidated U.S. federal income tax returns of the Company. Included in the audit of the 2014 return is the examination by the IRS with respect to the Cryovac Settlement agreement deduction and the proposed adjustment to disallow the entire amount paid under the Settlement Agreement. The outcome of the examination may require us to record additional tax expense and result in significant cash outflows. 

We have established valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets depends in part upon our ability to carryback any losses created by the deduction of these temporary differences, the future income from existing temporary differences, and the ability to generate future taxable income within the respective jurisdictions during the periods in which these temporary differences reverse. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. Conversely, if we have sufficient future taxable income in jurisdictions where we have valuation allowances, we may be able to reverse those valuation allowances. We reported a net decrease in our valuation allowance for the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily related to foreign net operating losses. See Note 19, "Income Taxes," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

We reported a net expense for unrecognized tax benefits in the year ended December 31, 2019 of $36 million, primarily related to North America tax positions. Interest and penalties on tax assessments are included in income tax expense.

Net Earnings from Continuing Operations

Net earnings from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, are included in the table below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For 2019, net earnings were unfavorably impacted by $145 million of Special Items after tax, which were primarily the result of restructuring and other restructuring associated costs primarily related to Reinvent SEE of $102 million ($76 million net of taxes), a $59 million ($44 million net of taxes) charge related to the Novipax settlement, loss on debt redemption and refinancing activities of $16 million ($12 million net of taxes) and charges related to acquisition integrations and divestiture activities of $15 million ($11 million net of taxes).

For 2018, net earnings were unfavorably impacted by $251 million of Special Items. Special Items primarily related to Tax Special Items including $222 million of expense for the one-time Transition Tax, partially offset by the release of valuation allowances associated with tax initiatives. In addition, net earnings were unfavorably impacted by Special Items expenses primarily related to restructuring and other restructuring associated costs of $64 million ($50 million net of taxes), charges related to the sale of Diversey of $21 million ($14 million net of taxes) and charges related to acquisition integrations and divestiture activities of $13 million ($10 million net of taxes), partially offset by gain on class-action litigation proceeds of $15 million ($12 million net of taxes).

For 2017, net earnings were unfavorably impacted by $280 million of Special Items, primarily related to Tax Special Items related to the sale of Diversey of $152 million, charges related to the sale of Diversey of $55 million ($29 million net of taxes) related to professional fees and restructuring, restructuring and other restructuring associated costs related to our restructuring program of $26 million ($21 million net of taxes) and other charges related to our acquisition and divestiture activity of $16 million ($13 million net of taxes).

44

(Loss) Gain on Sale of Discontinued Operations, net of tax

(Loss) gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax for the years ended December 31, are included in the table below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2017, we completed the sale of our Diversey Care division and recorded a net gain on the sale of Diversey of $641 million, net of taxes. During 2018, we recorded an additional net gain on the sale of Diversey of $43 million, net of taxes, which was related to the final net working capital settlement as well as the release of tax indemnity reserves upon expiration of the statute of limitations. During 2019, we recorded a net loss of $31 million on sale of discontinued operations. This loss relates primarily to changes in balance sheet positions associated with the sale of Diversey including tax-related indemnification reserves and other receivable or payable positions arising from the sale.

Adjusted EBITDA by Segment

The Company evaluates performance of the reportable segments based on the results of each segment. The performance metric used by the Company's chief operating decision maker to evaluate performance of our reportable segments is Adjusted EBITDA. We allocate and disclose depreciation and amortization expense to our segments, although depreciation and amortization are not included in the segment performance metric Adjusted EBITDA. We also allocate and disclose restructuring and other charges and impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets by segment, although it is not included in the segment performance metric Adjusted EBITDA since restructuring and other charges and impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets are categorized as Special Items. The accounting policies of the reportable segments and Corporate are the same as those applied to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

See "Non-U.S. GAAP Information” for a reconciliation of U.S. GAAP net earnings from continuing operations to non-U.S. GAAP Total Company Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following is a discussion of the factors that contributed to the change in Adjusted EBITDA by segment in the year ended December 31, as compared with the prior year.

Food Care

2019 compared with 2018

On a reported basis, Adjusted EBITDA increased $52 million in 2019 as compared to 2018. Adjusted EBITDA was impacted by unfavorable foreign currency translation of $21 million. On a constant dollar basis, Adjusted EBITDA increased $73 million, or 13%, in 2019 compared with the same period in 2018 primarily due to the impact of:

•Reinvent SEE benefits of $109 million driven by actions reducing operating costs by $50 million, restructuring savings of $39 million and improvements to price cost spread of $20 million;

45

•other price cost spread drivers of $20 million; and

•business growth including $10 million from higher volume.

These were partially offset by:

•higher operating costs of $66 million, including labor inflation, higher incentive compensation, investments in the business and other manufacturing costs.

2018 compared with 2017 

On a reported basis, Adjusted EBITDA increased $40 million in 2018 as compared to 2017. Adjusted EBITDA was impacted by unfavorable foreign currency translation of $14 million. On a constant dollar basis, Adjusted EBITDA increased $53 million or 10% in 2018 compared with the same period in 2017 primarily due to the impact of:

•favorable mix and price/cost spread of $33 million; 

•$28 million of restructuring savings; and

•positive volume trends of $21 million.

These were partially offset by:

•higher non-material manufacturing costs and other costs of $28 million, including salary and wage inflation.

Product Care

2019 compared with 2018

On a reported basis, Adjusted EBITDA increased $31 million in 2019 as compared to 2018. Adjusted EBITDA was impacted by unfavorable foreign currency translation of $6 million. On a constant dollar basis, Adjusted EBITDA increased $37 million, or 12%, in 2019 compared with the same period in 2018 primarily due to the impact of:

•Reinvent SEE benefits of $59 million driven by restructuring savings of $28 million, improvements to price cost spread of $17 million and actions reducing operating costs by $14 million;

•other price cost spread drivers of $26 million; and

•contributions from recent acquisitions of $14 million, which is net of the $6 million one-time non-cash inventory step-up charge associated with the Automated acquisition.

These were partially offset by:

•higher operating costs of approximately $34 million, including labor inflation, higher incentive compensation expense, other manufacturing costs and investment in the business; and

•lower volume of $28 million, primarily driven by macroeconomic headwinds, particularly in the industrial sector.

2018 compared with 2017 

On a reported basis, Adjusted EBITDA increased $26 million in 2018 as compared to 2017. Adjusted EBITDA was impacted by favorable foreign currency translation of $3 million. On a constant dollar basis, Adjusted EBITDA increased $24 million, or 8%, in 2018 compared with the same period in 2017 primarily due to the impact of:

•favorable price/cost spread of more than $15 million;

•restructuring savings of more than $15 million; and

•positive volume trends of $2 million. 

This was partially offset by:

•higher operating costs of $9 million primarily driven by higher non-material manufacturing costs and other costs including salary and wage inflation offset by income from the acquisition of Fagerdala and AFP. 

46

 Corporate

2019 compared with 2018

Corporate expenses increased by $8 million on an as reported basis and $9 million on a constant dollar basis as compared with the same period in 2018, primarily driven by currency transaction losses associated with emerging market currencies strengthening against the US Dollar. 

2018 compared with 2017 

Corporate expenses increased by $10 million on an as reported basis and constant dollar basis as compared with the same period in 2017, primarily due to foreign currency losses.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Principal Sources of Liquidity

Our primary sources of cash are the collection of trade receivables generated from the sales of our products and services to our customers and amounts available under our existing lines of credit, including our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facility, and our accounts receivable securitization programs. Our primary uses of cash are payments for operating expenses, investments in working capital, capital expenditures, interest, taxes, stock repurchases, dividends, debt obligations, restructuring expenses and other long-term liabilities. We believe that our current liquidity position and future cash flows from operations will enable us to fund our operations, including all of the items mentioned above, in the next twelve months.

As of December 31, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $262 million, of which approximately $244 million, or 93%, was located outside of the U.S. As of December 31, 2019, we had an immaterial amount of cash trapped outside of the U.S. Our U.S. cash balances and committed liquidity facilities available to U.S. borrowers are sufficient to fund our U.S. operating requirements and capital expenditures, current debt obligations and dividends. The Company does not expect that in the near term cash located outside of the U.S. will be needed to satisfy its obligations, dividends and other demands for cash in the U.S. 

Material Commitments and Contingencies

Cryovac Transaction Commitments and Contingencies

The information set forth in Note 20, “Commitments and Contingencies,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption “Cryovac Transaction Commitments and Contingencies” is incorporated herein by reference.

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our principal contractual obligations and sets forth the amounts of required or contingently required cash outlays in 2020 and future years: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

47

(1) Current portion of long-term debt is exclusive of present value discounting for finance lease obligations of $1.7 million. The long-term debt is exclusive of capitalized lender fees of $22.2 million, present value discounting for finance lease obligations of $6.1 million, and debt discounts of $2.3 million.

(2) Includes interest payments required under our senior notes issuances and Amended Credit Facility only. The interest payments included above for our Term Loan A were calculated using the following assumptions:

•interest rates based on stated LIBOR rates as of December 31, 2019; and

•all non-US Dollar balances are converted using exchange rates as of December 31, 2019.

(3) Obligations related to defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment benefit plans have been excluded from the table above, due to factors such as the retirement of employees, the performance of plan assets and economic and actuarial assumptions, as it is not reasonably possible to estimate when these obligations will become due. Refer to Note 17, “Profit Sharing, Retirement Savings Plans and Defined Benefit Pension Plans,” and Note 18, “Other Post-Employment Benefits and Other Employee Benefit Plans,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to these plans.

Short-term Borrowings, Current Portion of Long-Term Debt and Long-Term Debt 

Short-term borrowings, current portion of long-term debt and long-term debt represent the principal amount of the debt required to be repaid in each period.

Operating Leases 

The contractual operating lease obligations listed in the table above represent estimated future minimum annual rental commitments primarily under non-cancelable real and personal property leases as of December 31, 2019.

Other Principal Contractual Obligations 

Other principal contractual obligations include agreements to purchase an estimated amount of goods, including raw materials, or services, including energy, in the normal course of business. These obligations are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, minimum or variable price provisions and the approximate timing of the purchase. The amounts included in the table above represent estimates of the minimum amounts we are obligated to pay, or reasonably likely to pay under these agreements. We may purchase additional goods or services above the minimum requirements of these obligations and, as a result use additional cash.

Liability for Unrecognized Tax Benefits

At December 31, 2019, we had liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest of $384 million. Given the inherent uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows associated with some of our liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, we are not able to make reasonable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority. As such, these amounts are not included in the contractual obligations table above. See Note 19, “Income Taxes,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have reviewed our off-balance sheet arrangements and have determined that none of those arrangements has a material current effect or is reasonably likely to have a material future effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

Income Tax Payments

We expect tax payments to be approximately $100 million in 2020. These amounts are not included in the contractual obligations table above as future payments are uncertain and dependent on a number of factors including the amount of future taxable income and the results of on-going IRS examinations. 

Contributions to Defined Benefit Pension Plans

We maintain defined benefit pension plans for some of our U.S. and our non-U.S. employees. We currently expect our contributions to these plans to be approximately $20 million in 2020. Additionally, we expect benefits related to our defined 

48

benefit pension plan paid directly by the Company to be $4 million in 2020. These payments are not included in the contractual obligations table above as future contributions are uncertain and rely on a number of factors including performance of underlying assets, future cash out flows of the plans, actuarial assumptions and funding discussions with boards charged with governance for some of our international plans. Refer to Note 17, “Profit Sharing, Retirement Savings Plans and Defined Benefit Pension Plans,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to these plans.

Environmental Matters

We are subject to loss contingencies resulting from environmental laws and regulations, and we accrue for anticipated costs associated with investigatory and remediation efforts when an assessment has indicated that a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. These accruals do not take into account any discounting for the time value of money and are not reduced by potential insurance recoveries, if any. We do not believe that it is reasonably possible that the liability in excess of the amounts that we have accrued for environmental matters will be material to our consolidated financial position and results of operations. We reassess environmental liabilities whenever circumstances become better defined or we can better estimate remediation efforts and their costs. We evaluate these liabilities periodically based on available information, including the progress of remedial investigations at each site, the current status of discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the methods and extent of remediation and the apportionment of costs among potentially responsible parties. As some of these issues are decided (the outcomes of which are subject to uncertainties) or new sites are assessed and costs can be reasonably estimated, we adjust the recorded accruals, as necessary. We believe that these exposures are not material to our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. We believe that we have adequately reserved for all probable and estimable environmental exposures.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

The following table summarizes our accumulated cash and cash equivalents:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See “Analysis of Historical Cash Flow” below.

Accounts Receivable Securitization Programs and Accounts Receivable Factoring Agreements

At December 31, 2019, we had $127 million available to us under the U.S. and European programs of which we had no borrowings under the European or U.S. programs. At December 31, 2018, we had $150 million available to us under the U.S. and European programs of which we had $84 million borrowed under the European program. 

During the fourth quarter of 2019, we renegotiated the U.S. Accounts Receivable Securitization program. As a result, our maximum purchase limit for receivable interests decreased from $60 million under the old program to $50 million under the new program. At the same time, we established a new Accounts Receivable Factoring program under which we sell outstanding receivables to the financial institution. The sales of these receivables are accounted for in accordance with ASC 860, "Transfers and Servicing" ("ASC 860"). ASC 860 allows for the ownership transfer of accounts receivable to qualify for true-sale treatment when the appropriate criteria is met, which permits the Company to present the balances sold under the program to be excluded from trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2019, the utilization under new factoring program was $10 million. The securitization programs and factoring program are renewed annually. 

See Note 10, “Accounts Receivable Securitization Programs,” and Note 11, "Accounts Receivable Factoring Agreements" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information concerning these programs.

Supply Chain Financing Programs

As part of our ongoing efforts to manage our working capital and improve our cash flow, we work with suppliers to optimize our purchasing terms and conditions, including extending payment terms. We also facilitate a voluntary supply chain financing program to provide some of our suppliers with the opportunity to sell receivables due from us (our trade payables) to participating financial institutions at the sole discretion of both the suppliers and the financial institutions. These programs are administered by participating financial institutions. Should the supplier choose to participate in the program, it will receive 

49

payment from the financial institution in advance of agreed payment terms; our responsibility is limited to making payments to the respective financial institutions on the terms originally negotiated with our supplier. The range of payment terms are consistent regardless of a vendor's participation in the program. We monitor our days payable outstanding relative to our peers and industry trends in order to assess our conclusion that these programs continue to be trade payable programs and not indicative of borrowing arrangements. The liabilities continue to be presented as trade payables in our consolidated balance sheets until they are paid and are reflected as cash flow from operating activities when settled.

These supply chain financing programs were implemented starting in 2016. We believe they had the greatest benefit to cash provided by trade payables within cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow in 2016 and 2017, as these programs were being implemented. These programs did not significantly improve cash provided by operating activities or free cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to prior years. 

Lines of Credit

At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had a $1 billion revolving credit facility and $89 million and $140 million of outstanding borrowings under the facility, respectively. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had $10 million and $9 million, respectively, available under various lines of credit extended to our subsidiaries. See Note 14, “Debt and Credit Facilities,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement for further details.

LIBOR Phase Out

In July 2017, the United Kingdom's Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to phase out LIBOR by the end of 2021. An alternative to LIBOR has been contemplated in many of our LIBOR-linked instruments and other financial obligations, including our Secured Credit Facility. We do not expect the phase-out of LIBOR to have a material disruption or impact on our financing or liquidity.

Covenants

Each issue of our outstanding senior notes imposes limitations on our operations and those of specified subsidiaries. The Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type, including limitations on our indebtedness, liens, investments, restricted payments, mergers and acquisitions, dispositions of assets, transactions with affiliates, amendment of documents and sale leasebacks, and a covenant specifying a maximum permitted ratio of Consolidated Net Debt to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement). We were in compliance with the above financial covenants and limitations at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

See “Covenants” in Note 14, “Debt and Credit Facilities,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Debt Ratings

Our cost of capital and ability to obtain external financing may be affected by our debt ratings, which the credit rating agencies review periodically. Below is a table that details our credit ratings by the various types of debt by rating agency. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

These credit ratings are considered to be below investment grade (with the exception of the Baa3 and BBB- Senior Secured Credit Facility Rating from Moody’s Investor Services and Standard & Poor’s, respectively, which are classified as investment grade). If our credit ratings are downgraded, there could be a negative impact on our ability to access capital markets and borrowing costs could increase. A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

Outstanding Indebtedness

At December 31, 2019 and 2018, our total debt outstanding consisted of the amounts set forth in the following table.

50

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 14, “Debt and Credit Facilities,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

Analysis of Historical Cash Flow

The following table shows the changes in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition to net cash provided by operating activities, we use free cash flow as a useful measure of performance and as an indication of the strength and ability of our operations to generate cash. We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures (which is classified as an investing activity). Free cash flow is not defined under U.S. GAAP. Therefore, free cash flow should not be considered a substitute for net income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Free cash flow does not represent residual cash available for discretionary expenditures, including certain debt servicing requirements or non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from this measure. We historically have generated the majority of our annual free cash flow in the second half of the year. Below are the details of free cash flow for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

51

Operating Activities

2019 vs. 2018 

Net cash provided by operating activities improved by $83 million in the current year. This was primarily the result of stronger net earnings including non-cash add backs, improved cash provided by working capital, and lower cash tax payments in 2019 compared to 2018. 

Net earnings were $263 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $193 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Non-cash add backs to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities were $221 million in 2019 compared to $182 million in 2018. The increase was primarily driven by $20 million of higher depreciation and amortization, due to amortization of intangibles acquired from Automated, as well as a non-cash loss recorded from the sale of discontinued operations of $31 million. 

Working capital represented a source of cash of $14 million in 2019 compared to a use of cash of $20 million in 2018. Cash generation from working capital in 2019 was driven by improvements in accounts receivables, primarily on strengthened collections, and cash generated from organic inventory reduction, which excludes the change in balance resulting from the opening balance sheet acquired in acquisitions made this year. These improvements were slightly offset by a use of cash in accounts payable in 2019 of $37 million which compares to a source of cash of $43 million in 2018. The change in cash provided by/used in accounts payable primarily represents timing of payments as well as the benefits received in prior years of improvements to working capital. 

Cash tax payments in 2019 were $95 million compared to $155 million in 2018. The improvement was partially the result of one-time items benefiting cash taxes paid in the year including the Novipax settlement and benefits from the purchase of Automated. 

The year over year improvements were partially offset by cash payments made for Reinvent SEE including restructuring and restructuring associated payments of $91 million in 2019 compared to $12 million in 2018. The one-time cash outflow in 2019 related to the Novipax settlement payment was largely offset by a one-time payment in lieu of certain future royalty payments for patents made in 2018.

2018 vs. 2017

Net cash provided by operating activities was $428 million in 2018 compared to $424 million in 2018. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2017 included a partial year contribution from Diversey prior to its sale in September 2017. 

In 2018, we generated $193 million of net earnings and had $182 million of non-cash adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities, or $375 million. 

In 2017, we had $815 million of net earnings and $255 million of non-cash adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities, or $560 million. The net earnings less non-cash adjustments of $560 million in 2017 was offset by a $207 million decrease in income tax payables primarily as a result of an increase in cash tax payments related to the sale of Diversey. 

Overall, cash generation from Diversey's operations in 2017 was largely offset by cash payments related to the sale as well as restructuring and restructuring associated payments related to stranded cost reduction made in 2017, which was a combined outflow of $230 million. Cash payments related to the sale and restructuring and restructuring associated payments made in 2018 was an outflow of $64 million.

Working capital was a use of cash of $20 million in 2018 compared to a source of cash of $17 million in 2017. Cash provided by working capital in 2018 was negatively impacted by inventory, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable. We experienced a greater benefit from accounts payable improvements in 2017.

Investing Activities

2019 vs. 2018 

Net cash used in investing activities was $666 million in 2019, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $267 million in 2018. The change in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to an increase in business acquisitions activity of $384 million, primarily due to the acquisition of Automated, offset by the cash outflow for the purchase of AFP in 

52

2018; and an increase in capital expenditures of $21 million, driven by increased investment to drive growth and improve cost productivity.

2018 vs. 2017

Net cash used in investing activities was $267 million in 2018, compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $1,786 million in 2017. The change in net cash (used in) provided by investing activities was primarily due the 2017 impact of proceeds from the sale of Diversey of $2.2 billion, net of payments of debt of $777 million. 

Financing Activities

2019 vs. 2018 

Net cash provided by financing activities was $140 million in 2019, compared to net cash used in financing activities of $478 million in 2018. The change in net cash provided by (used in) in financing activities was primarily due to borrowing activity in 2019. Specifically, we received the proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $895 million, including the Term Loan A due 2022 of $475 million to fund the purchase of Automated and the issuance of $425 million of 4.00% of senior notes due 2027, which was partially offset by the $425 million repurchase of the 6.50% senior notes due 2020. Short-term borrowings was a use of cash in 2019 compared to a source of cash in 2018 representing a net change $352 million year over year. This was driven by decrease in borrowings under the European Accounts Receivable Securitization program and our revolving credit facility in 2019 compared to an increase of facility use in 2018. Additionally, share repurchases were $515 million lower in 2019 compared to 2018. We continue to evaluate our capital allocation strategy to determine the best use of cash, including decisions around share repurchases, investments in growth and operational efficiency, acquisitions and maintaining our debt-leverage ratio. 

2018 vs. 2017

Net cash used in financing activities was $478 million in 2018, compared to net cash used in financing activities of $1,890 million in 2017. The change in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to lower repurchases of common stock, which were $720 million less in 2018 compared to 2017. Additionally, in 2017 we repaid the Term Loan A due in July 2017 for $250 million plus $98 million for the Brazilian tranche of Term Loan A. Finally, in 2018 the Company had higher net proceeds from short-term borrowings of $318 million, driven by an increase in borrowings under the European Accounts receivable securitization program and revolving credit facility compared to 2017. The use of the accounts receivable securitization program and the revolving credit facility was lower in 2017 due to cash on hand resulting from proceeds of our sale of Diversey. 

Changes in Working Capital 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The $62 million, or 93%, increase in working capital from 2018 to 2019 results from lower borrowings under the Revolving credit facility and European accounts receivable securitization program of $135 million and an increase in inventory of $25 million, primarily resulting from our acquisition of Automated. Acquisitions made during the year had a negative impact on our year-end working capital balance. 

These were partially offset by an increase in other current liabilities of $85 million, reflecting the timing of accrued liabilities including restructuring and higher accruals for incentive compensation, and $26 million related to the liability recorded for our short-term operating leases as a result of our adoption of ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). 

See Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards," and Note 4, "Leases," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on leases and our adoption of new accounting standards.

53

Changes in Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit)

The $152 million, or 44%, increase in stockholders’ equity in 2019 compared with 2018 was due to:

•net earnings of $263 million;

•the effect of share-based incentive compensation of $23 million, which includes the impact of our share-based compensation expense as well as the impact of shares netting to cover the employee tax withholding amounts;

•stock issued for profit sharing contribution paid in stock of $22 million; 

•cumulative translation adjustment of $16 million; and

•unrealized gains on derivative instruments of $5 million.

These were partially offset by:

•dividends paid on our common stock and dividend equivalent accruals related to unvested equity awards of $100 million; 

•a net increase in shares held in treasury of $67 million due to the repurchase of common stock; and

•a net decrease in accumulated other comprehensive loss of $10 million on unrecognized pension items due primarily to market conditions impacting actuarial assumptions as of our annual pension valuation.

We repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares of our common stock during the year ended December 31, 2019 for $67 million. See Note 21, “Stockholders’ Deficit,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

Derivative Financial Instruments

Interest Rate Swaps

The information set forth in Note 15, “Derivatives and Hedging Activities,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption “Interest Rate Swaps” is incorporated herein by reference.

Net Investment Hedge

The information set forth in Note 15, “Derivatives and Hedging Activities,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption “Net Investment Hedge” is incorporated herein by reference.

Other Derivative Instruments

The information set forth in Note 15, “Derivatives and Hedging Activities,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption “Other Derivative Instruments” is incorporated herein by reference.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts

At December 31, 2019, we were party to foreign currency forward contracts, which did not have a significant impact on our liquidity.

The information set forth in Note 15, “Derivatives and Hedging Activities,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption “Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Cash Flow Hedges” and "“Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Not Designated as Hedges” is incorporated herein by reference.

For further discussion about these contracts and other financial instruments, see Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”

54

Recently Issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards, Accounting Guidance and Disclosure Requirements

We are subject to numerous recently issued statements of financial accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements. Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards,” which is contained in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, describes these new accounting standards and is incorporated herein by reference.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.

Our estimates and assumptions are evaluated on an ongoing basis and are based on all available evidence, including historical experience and other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. To derive these estimates and assumptions, management draws from those available sources that can best contribute to its efforts. These sources include our officers and other employees, outside consultants and legal counsel, third-party experts and actuaries. In addition, we use internally generated reports and statistics, such as aging of trade receivables, as well as outside sources such as government statistics, industry reports and third-party research studies. The results of these estimates and assumptions may form the basis of the carrying value of assets and liabilities and may not be readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from estimates under conditions and circumstances different from those assumed, and any such differences may be material to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

We believe the following accounting policies are critical to understanding our consolidated results of operations and affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The critical accounting policies discussed below should be read together with our significant accounting policies set forth in Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Commitments and Contingencies — Litigation

On an ongoing basis, we assess the potential liabilities and costs related to any lawsuits or claims brought against us. We accrue a liability when we believe a loss is probable and when the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Litigation proceedings are evaluated on a case-by-case basis considering the available information, including that received from internal and outside legal counsel, to assess potential outcomes. While it is typically very difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of these actions, we use our best judgment to determine if it is probable that we will incur an expense related to the settlement or final adjudication of these matters and whether a reasonable estimation of the probable loss, if any, can be made. In assessing probable losses, we consider insurance recoveries, if any. We expense legal costs, including those legal costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency, as incurred. We have historically adjusted existing accruals as proceedings have continued, been settled or for which additional information has been provided on which to review the probability and measurability of outcomes, and will continue to do so in future periods. Due to the inherent uncertainties related to the eventual outcome of litigation and potential insurance recovery, it is possible that disputed matters may be resolved for amounts materially different from any provisions or disclosures that we have previously made.

Revenue Recognition

Our revenue earning activities primarily involve manufacturing and selling products. Revenue from contracts with customers is recognized using a five-step model consisting of the following: (1) identify the contract with a customer; (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determine the transaction price; (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognize revenue when (or as) the Company satisfies a performance obligation. Performance obligations are satisfied when the Company transfers control of a good or service to a customer, which can occur over time or at a point in time. The amount of revenue recognized is based on the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services, including the expected value of variable consideration. The customer’s ability and intent to pay the transaction price is assessed in determining whether a contract exists with the customer. If collectability of substantially all of the consideration in a contract is not probable, consideration received is not recognized as revenue unless the consideration is nonrefundable and the Company no longer has an obligation to transfer additional goods or services to the customer or collectability becomes probable.

55

In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), (“ASU 2014-09”) and issued subsequent amendments to the initial guidance, collectively, Topic 606. The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. 

We have the implemented the guidance using the modified retrospective method, in which the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard has been recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings in the year of adoption. For the year ending December 31, 2017, the Company recognized revenue under ASC 605, under which the following criteria were used for revenue recognition: persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, shipment has occurred, selling price is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured.

The determination of whether an arrangement meets the definition of a contract under ASC 606 depends on whether it creates enforceable rights and obligations. While enforceability is a matter of law, we believe that enforceable rights and obligations in a contract must be substantive in order for the contract to be in scope of ASC 606. The penalty for noncompliance must be significant relative to the minimum obligation. Fixed or minimum purchase obligations were the most common examples of substantive enforceable rights present in our contracts. Sealed Air determines that the contract term is the period of enforceability outlined by the terms of the contract. This means that in many cases, the term stated in the contract is different than the period of enforceability.

Our efforts to adopt this standard focused on contract analysis at a regional level. We concluded our assessment and identified the most significant impact was on the accounting for Free on Loan equipment in our Food Care division. Whereas previously we did not recognize revenue on Free on Loan equipment, under the new standard, we allocate revenue to that equipment and account for the lease component under ASC 840, which has been superseded by ASC 842. ASC 606-10-15-4 states that a contract can be partially in scope of ASC 606 and partially in scope of another standard, in this case ASC 842. Sealed Air determined the proper accounting treatment for contracts with lease and non-lease components is to allocate the transaction price of the contract to the separate lease and non-lease components, account for the non-lease components of the contract under ASC 606 and account for the lease components of the contract under ASC 842. During the contract analysis we also evaluated how the transaction price would be allocated across the performance obligations. As a result of this review, we adjusted our equipment accrual balance, within the Food Care division, to reflect the stand-alone selling price of the equipment within our portfolio. 

Leasing Activity

Sealed Air is involved in leasing activity as both a lessee and a lessor. Sealed Air is the lessor primarily for equipment used by our customers to meet their packaging needs. Sealed Air is the lessee of property used for production and for sales and administrative functions, including real property, buildings, manufacturing and office equipment, offices and automobiles. 

Effective January 1, 2019, we adopted, ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), (“ASU 2016-02”) and the subsequently issued amendments to the initial guidance, collectively, Topic 842. This ASU requires an entity to recognize a right-of-use asset ("ROU") and lease liability for all leases with terms of more than 12 months. Recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses now depends on classification as a finance or operating lease. The amendments also require certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures about leasing arrangements. We adopted this ASU using a modified retrospective transition method. 

We elected the short-term lease recognition exemption for all leases that qualify. This means, for those leases that qualify, we will not recognize ROU assets or lease liabilities, and this includes not recognizing ROU assets or lease liabilities for existing short-term leases of those assets in transition. We also elected the practical expedient not to separate lease and non-lease components for all of our leases, which means all consideration that is fixed, or in-substance fixed, relating to the non-lease components will be captured as part of our lease components for balance sheet purposes.

We believe the most significant effect of adoption was the recognition of new ROU assets and lease liabilities on our balance sheet for our office and equipment and real estate operating leases. As of December 31, 2019, we recognized additional operating lease liabilities of $92 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments for existing operating leases and corresponding ROU assets of $90 million on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additionally, $28 million of assets that were included in property and equipment, net as of December 31, 2018 are now included in other non-current assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2019. 

 Additionally, we now provide significant new disclosures about our leasing activities. We have formed a lease accounting center of excellence which has on-going responsibility to lead our global lease accounting and reporting under Topic 842. We have implemented a third-party lease accounting software due to the adoption of Topic 842. We have also added additional internal controls related to our lease accounting and software solution under Topic 842. 

56

 See Note 4, "Leases," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional lease disclosures.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

For finite-lived intangible assets, such as customer relationships, contracts and intellectual property, and for other long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, whenever impairment indicators are present, we perform a review for impairment. We calculate the undiscounted value of the projected cash flows associated with the asset, or asset group, and compare this estimated amount to the carrying amount. If the carrying amount is found to be greater, we record an impairment loss for the excess of book value over the fair value. In addition, in all cases of an impairment review, we re-evaluate the remaining useful lives of the assets and modify them as appropriate.

For indefinite–lived intangible assets, such as trademarks and trade names, each year and whenever impairment indicators are present, we determine the fair value of the asset and record an impairment loss for the excess of book value over fair value, if any. In addition, in all cases of an impairment review we re-evaluate whether continuing to characterize the asset as indefinite–lived is appropriate. We recorded no impairment to indefinite lived assets in the current year. 

Goodwill

Goodwill is reviewed for possible impairment at least annually on a reporting unit level during the fourth quarter of each year. A review of goodwill may be initiated before or after conducting the annual analysis if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable.

A reporting unit is the operating segment unless, at businesses one level below that operating segment - the “component” level - discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management, and the component has economic characteristics that are different from the economic characteristics of the other components of the operating segment, in which case the component is the reporting unit.

In our annual impairment review, we may elect to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. In a qualitative assessment, we would consider the macroeconomic conditions, including any deterioration of general economic conditions, industry and market conditions, including any deterioration in the environment where the reporting unit operates, increased competition, changes in the products/services and regulator and political developments; cost of doing business; overall financial performance, including any declining cash flows and performance in relation to planned revenues and earnings in past periods; other relevant reporting unit specific facts, such as changes in management or key personnel or pending litigation, and events affecting the reporting unit, including changes in the carrying value of net assets. 

If the results of our qualitative assessment indicate it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we are required to perform a quantitative assessment to determine the fair value of the reporting unit.

Alternatively, if an optional qualitative goodwill impairment assessment is not performed, we may perform a quantitative assessment. Under the quantitative assessment, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value, including the goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying value, there would be no indication of impairment. If the fair value of the reporting unit were less than the carrying value, an impairment charge would be recognized for the difference.

Under the quantitative assessment, we derive an estimate of fair values for each of our reporting units using a combination of an income approach and appropriate market approaches. Absent an indication of fair value from a potential buyer or similar specific transactions, we believe that the use of these methods provides a reasonable estimate of a reporting unit’s fair value. Fair value computed by these models is arrived at using a number of factors and inputs. There are inherent uncertainties, however, related to fair value models, the inputs and to our judgment in applying them to this analysis. Nonetheless, we believe that the combination of these methods provides a reasonable approach to estimate the fair value of our reporting units.

We believe the most significant inputs in our quantitative assessment include:

•Forecasted future operating results: On an annual basis, the Company prepares annual and medium-term financial results projections. These projections are based on input from the Company's leadership, strategy, commercial leadership and finance teams and presented to our Board of Directors annually. Influences on this year's forecasted financial information and the fair value model include: the impact of recent acquisitions, 

57

notably Automated Packaging Systems, future expected benefits of our Reinvent SEE initiatives and overall market conditions. 

•Discount rate: Our third-party valuation specialists provide inputs into management's determination of the discount rate. The rate is dependent on a number of underlying assumptions, the most impactful of which are the risk-free rate, tax rate, equity risk premium, debt to equity ratios and pre-tax cost of debt.

•Long-term growth rate: Long-term growth rates are applied to the terminal year of our cash flow valuation approach. The long-term growth rates are tied to growth rates we expect to achieve beyond the years for which we have forecasted operating results. We use external data, including long-term global GDP rates, we believe is applicable to our industry and composition of global operations. 

The Company performed a quantitative assessment of the goodwill by reporting unit as of October 1, 2019. We believe it is appropriate to periodically perform the quantitative assessment for our annual impairment test, even if qualitative considerations do not indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. The periodic and timely calculation of the quantitative assessment provides better support for our qualitative assessments. Additionally, we note the changes in the Product Care reporting unit with the recent acquisitions made in 2017, 2018 and 2019 as another contributing factor to our quantitative assessment of goodwill in 2019.

None of our reporting units indicated the fair value was less than its carrying value. Based on our quantitative assessment, we believe the fair value of each of our reporting units sufficiently exceeds each reporting unit's carrying value. As part of our analysis, we performed a sensitivity analysis on the discount rate and long-term growth rate assumptions. The sensitivities lead us to the same conclusion that no impairment exists. 

In the fourth quarter of 2018 and 2017, we performed a qualitative assessment. No indication of goodwill impairment was identified in 2018 or 2017.

The Company also assesses its goodwill for impairment from time to time when warranted by the facts and circumstances surrounding individual reporting units. Subsequent to our annual reporting period, we continued to assess whether there were changes in facts or circumstances that would lead us to believe goodwill may be impaired. No indication of goodwill impairment has been identified subsequent to our annual testing date. 

See Note 9, “Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets, net,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details of our goodwill balance and the goodwill review performed in 2019, 2018 and 2017 and other related information.

Pensions

For a number of our current and former U.S. employees and our international employees, we maintain defined benefit pension plans. Under current accounting standards, we are required to make assumptions regarding the valuation of projected benefit obligations and the performance of plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans.

The projected benefit obligation and the net periodic benefit cost are based on third-party actuarial assumptions and estimates that are reviewed and approved by management on a plan-by-plan basis each fiscal year. We believe the most significant assumptions are the discount rate used to measure the projected benefit obligation and the expected future rate of return on plan assets. We revise these assumptions based on an annual evaluation of long-term trends and market conditions that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement benefits.

In determining the discount rate, we utilize market conditions and other data sources management considers reasonable based upon the profile of the remaining service life or expected life of eligible employees. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is determined by taking into consideration the weighted-average expected return on our asset allocation, asset return data, historical return data, and the economic environment. We believe these considerations provide the basis for reasonable assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The measurement date used to determine the benefit obligation and plan assets is December 31.

At December 31, 2019, the total projected benefit obligation for our U.S. pension plan was $194 million, and the total benefit expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $1 million. At December 31, 2019, the total projected benefit obligation for our international pension plans was $704 million, and the total benefit income for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $2 million. The employer service cost of our pension plans is charged to Cost of sales and Selling, general and administrative expenses. All other components of benefits expense are recorded to other (expense) income, net.

58

Material changes to the principal assumptions could have a material impact on the costs and liabilities recognized on our Consolidated Financial Statements. A 25 basis point change in the assumed discount rate and a 100 basis point change in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would have resulted in the following increases (decreases) in the projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2019 and the expected net periodic benefit cost for the year ending December 31, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income Taxes

Estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of our deferred tax assets. Our deferred tax assets arise from net deductible temporary differences, tax benefit carryforwards and tax credits. We evaluate whether our taxable earnings, during the periods when the temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets become deductible or when tax benefit carryforwards may be utilized, should be sufficient to realize the related future income tax benefits. For those jurisdictions where the expiration dates of tax benefit carryforwards or the projected taxable earnings indicate that realization is not likely, we provide a valuation allowance.

In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable earnings, with consideration for the feasibility of ongoing planning strategies and the realizability of tax benefit carryforwards and past operating results, to determine which deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized in the future. Changes to tax laws, statutory tax rates and future taxable earnings can have an impact on valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates in future periods, we may need to adjust the valuation allowance, which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations.

In calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes, we also evaluate our tax positions for years where the statutes of limitations have not expired. Based on this review, we may establish reserves for additional taxes and interest that could be assessed upon examination by relevant tax authorities. We adjust these reserves to take into account changing facts and circumstances, including the results of tax audits and changes in tax law. If the payment of additional taxes and interest ultimately proves unnecessary or less than the amount of the reserve, the reversal of the reserves would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the reserves are no longer necessary. If an estimate of tax reserves proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to income tax provision would result. These adjustments to reserves and related expenses could materially affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations.

We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized on the Consolidated Financial Statements from such positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement with tax authorities. See Note 19, “Income Taxes,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

59

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk