PART I

Item 1.Business

The Company

We are in business to protect, to solve critical packaging challenges, and to leave our world better than we found it.

Sealed Air Corporation ("Sealed Air" or the "Company", also referred to as "we", "us", or "our") was incorporated in Delaware in 1960. We conduct substantially all of our business through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Cryovac, LLC (formerly, Cryovac, Inc.) and Sealed Air Corporation (US). Please refer to Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for financial information about the Company and its subsidiaries, which is incorporated herein by reference. Also, when we cross reference to a “Note,” we are referring to our “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” unless the context indicates otherwise.

We apply knowledge and expertise to develop fulfillment and packaging solutions that minimize food waste, maximize food safety, and protect goods shipped around the world. We apply our expertise in material science to develop sustainable solutions that addresses recyclability, reusability and recycled and/or renewable content.

In 2019, we generated net sales of $4.8 billion, net earnings from continuing operations of $294 million, and Adjusted EBITDA of $965 million, all of which were higher than prior year results. Refer to Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations” for reconciliation of net earnings from continuing operations based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) to total company Adjusted EBITDA presented on a basis which does not conform to U.S. GAAP, which we refer to as “non-U.S. GAAP.”

Competitive Strengths

We strive to deliver the best products at the right price and make them sustainable. In the markets we serve, we leverage our iconic brands, leading market positions, differentiated technologies, global scale/market access, and well-established customer relationships. Our portfolio of leading packaging solutions includes Cryovac® brand food packaging, Sealed Air® brand protective packaging and Bubble Wrap® brand packaging which collectively enable a safer, more efficient food supply chain and protect valuable goods shipped around the world. We execute our strategy through the following competitive strengths. 

Leading Market Positions. We are a global provider of packaging solutions for the food, e-Commerce, electronics and industrial markets. For food industries we provide integrated packaging materials, equipment, automation and service solutions that extend shelf life, enhance brands and drive operational excellence by eliminating waste, increasing processing speeds and reducing customers’ labor requirements. For e-Commerce, electronics, and industrial markets we offer a broad range of protective packaging materials and automation solutions that prevent product damage, increase order fulfillment velocity, and generate savings through reductions in waste, dimensional weight and packaging labor.

Innovation, Digitalization and Automation. Sealed Air operates Innovation centers in the U.S. and Europe, and a global network of 39 packaging labs and design centers staffed with an extensive team of scientists, engineers, designers and industry application experts. Our research and development efforts are focused on developing sustainable, innovative solutions to improve our customers’ profitability, and help them deliver outstanding customer experience to their customers. We are investing in digitalization and automation to build an ecosystem of connected machines, people and automated processes.

Sustainability in everything we do. Sustainability is top of mind for our constituents. We focus on reducing climate-related emissions, water use, energy use and waste in our operations and throughout the value chain while innovating and manufacturing high performance packaging. We are involved in worldwide collaborations with objectives to increase recycling, reusability and recycled content. Our sustainability strategy focuses on materials, design, recovery and education to lead industry transformation towards a circular economy.

Global Reach. Sealed Air serves a diverse global customer base with a sales and distribution network reaching 124 countries/regions. In 2019, 48% of net sales were from outside the U.S. This scale and reach enable us to partner with customers as they expand their business on a global basis. Our broad geographic presence and extensive distribution network position us to capitalize on growth opportunities in markets around the world. 

3

Diversified Customer Base. Our customers include the world’s leading food processors, e-Commerce and industrial and electronics manufacturers. We leverage extensive knowledge of our customers’ business when innovating new solutions, and partner with customers to effectively implement our solutions to improve their operations. Our customer base is diverse, with no single customer or affiliated group of customers representing more than 10% of net sales in 2019.

Operational Excellence. We have been optimizing our manufacturing processes and distribution network. These efforts have resulted in plant productivity improvements, network efficiencies, and procurement savings. Operational disciplines are becoming embedded in the organization and demonstrating sustained results.

Reinvent SEE Strategy

In 2018, we completed a thorough assessment of our entire organization and the market opportunities available across the global packaging industry. This assessment confirmed Sealed Air is well positioned to continue delivering organic growth. It also reinforced the need to grow market share and move into adjacent markets with greater speed and efficiency, as we accelerate returns on our highly differentiated innovations. Acting on these findings, Sealed Air formulated and announced its Reinvent SEE Strategy and complementary restructuring program in 2018. 

The execution of our Reinvent SEE strategy is well underway and ahead of schedule. The objective is to transform how we innovate, buy, make, and solve customers’ most critical packaging challenges. Throughout the process, our behaviors are focused on the 4P'SSM of Reinvent SEE: 

Performance. Achieving world-class performance by driving growth above the markets we serve and increasing our operating leverage while maintaining a disciplined investment approach.

People. Developing a One SEE high performance culture by instilling a strong service culture and developing, retaining and attracting the best and brightest workforce. 

Products. Focusing on increasing our innovation rate. Offer our customers the best products at the right price and make them sustainable.

Processes. Embedding One SEE operational excellence into everything we do by eliminating waste, simplifying processes, automating and removing people from harm’s way.

Sustainability. Leaving our world better than we found it by reducing our resource intensity, diverting waste from landfills and improving employee safety. 

Segments

We report our segment information in accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, “Segment Reporting,” (“FASB ASC Topic 280”). 

See Note 6, “Segments,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Recent Developments

On August 1, 2019 the Company acquired 100% of the limited liability company interest in Automated Packaging Systems, LLC, formerly Automated Packaging Systems, Inc. (“Automated”), a leading manufacturer of automated bagging systems. The acquisition is included in our Product Care reporting segment. Automated offers growth opportunities and allows us to further penetrate adjacent markets. Consideration exchanged for Automated was $445.7 million in cash.

On August 1, 2018, we acquired AFP, Inc., a leading, privately held fabricator of foam, corrugated, molded pulp and wood packaging solutions, to join our Product Care division. This acquisition further expands our protective packaging solutions in the electronics, transportation and industrial markets with custom-engineered applications. We acquired 100% of AFP shares for an estimated consideration of $74.1 million, excluding $3.3 million of cash acquired.

On October 2, 2017, we acquired Fagerdala Singapore Pte Ltd. (“Fagerdala”), a manufacturer and fabricator of polyethylene foam based in Singapore, to join our Product Care division. We acquired 100% of Fagerdala shares for estimated consideration of S$144.7 million, or $106.2 million, net of cash acquired of $13.3 million. We acquired Fagerdala to leverage 

4

its manufacturing footprint in Asia, expertise in foam manufacturing and fabrication, and commercial organization to expand our presence across multiple industries utilizing fulfillment to distribute goods.

On March 25, 2017, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Diversey Care division and the food hygiene and cleaning business within our Food Care division (collectively, “Diversey”) for gross proceeds of USD equivalent of $3.2 billion. The transaction was completed on September 6, 2017.

See Note 5, “Discontinued Operations, Divestitures and Acquisitions,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on these transactions.

Descriptions of the Reportable Segments

Food Care Segment

Food Care largely serves perishable food processors, predominantly in chilled, smoked and processed meat, poultry and dairy-solid markets worldwide, and maintains positions in target applications. Food Care provides integrated packaging materials, equipment, and automation solutions and services to increase operational efficiency, extend shelf life and reduce resource use throughout the supply chain with innovative, sustainable packaging that enables customers to reduce costs and enhance their brands in the marketplace.

Food Care solutions are well aligned to capitalize on global market dynamics driven by continued urbanization, global growth of middle class, the e-food movement, growing consumer preference for smaller portions and healthier food choices, increasing labor scarcity and demand for more sustainable packaging. Our solutions, innovative materials and proven equipment and services preserve nutrition while enhancing food safety. Food Care technologies and continued investment in innovation positions it not only to address, but to be a global provider of solutions for sustainable packaging. Food Care solutions are marketed under the Cryovac® trademark and other highly recognized trade names including Cryovac Grip & Tear®, Cryovac Darfresh®, Cryovac Mirabella®, Simple Steps® and Optidure™. 

Food Care applications are largely sold direct to customers by our sales, marketing and customer service personnel throughout the world.

Product Care Segment

Product Care packaging solutions are utilized across many global markets and are especially valuable to e-Commerce, electronics and industrial manufacturing. Product Care solutions are designed to protect valuable goods in shipping, and drive operational excellence for our customers, increasing their order fulfillment velocity while minimizing material usage, dimensional weight and packaging labor requirements. The breadth of Product Care’s solutions portfolio, extensive packaging engineering and technical services, and global reach uniquely supports the needs of multinational customers who require performance excellence, consistency and reliability of supply wherever they operate around the globe. Recent acquisitions of Fagerdala in 2017 and AFP, Inc. in 2018 enabled us to further expand our protective packaging solutions in electronics, transportation and industrial markets with turnkey, custom-engineered, fabricated solutions. The 2019 acquisition of Automated, a leading manufacturer of automated bagging systems, offers growth opportunities and allows us to further penetrate adjacent markets.  

Product Care benefits from the continued expansion of e-Commerce, increasing freight costs, scarcity of labor, and increasing demand for more sustainable packaging. Product Care solutions are sold direct as well as through supply distributors that sell to business/industrial end-users. Product Care solutions are additionally sold directly to fabricators, original equipment manufacturers, contract manufacturers, third-party logistics partners, e-commerce/fulfillment operations, and at various retail centers. Product Care solutions are marketed under industry-leading brands including Bubble Wrap® brand inflatable packaging, Sealed Air® brand performance shrink films and Autobag® brand bagging systems. Product Care product families include additional well known tradenames including Instapak® polyurethane foam packaging solutions and Korrvu® suspension and retention packaging. Solutions are sold globally and supported by a network of 39 American Society for Testing and Materials International (“ASTM”)-approved Product Care design and testing centers, and one of the industry’s largest sales and service teams. 

Sustainability 

As a leader in the packaging industry, we are committed to delivering essential solutions that minimize food waste, maximize food safety, and protect valuable goods shipped around the world. Analysis by our leadership team and Board of 

5

Directors of anticipated issues, risks and opportunities guide our strategy. Our innovation strategy and sustainability goals are aligned as it relates to waste reduction, recyclability and reusability. We are investing in our materials to lighten the weight and increase recycled and/or renewable content, while maintaining the highest performance standards of Sealed Air brands. We believe that our commitment to sustainability differentiates us from competitors. 

In 2014, we launched an ambitious plan to achieve a set of 2020 Sustainability Goals within our own internal operations, most of which have been met or are ahead of schedule. We sought to embed sustainability into the fabric of our operational excellence by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, energy and water intensity of our operations and by diverting product and process waste from landfills. We hold our suppliers to the same high standards we have for our own operations.

In late 2018, we announced our 2025 Sustainability and Plastics Pledge that will increase plastics circularity in the packaging industry through the following key initiatives: 

Investment in Innovation. Dedicating significant R&D resources to design and advance packaging solutions to be recyclable or reusable and contain more recycled and/or renewable content. 

Eliminate Plastic Waste. Achieving ambitious targets of recycled content across all packaging solutions which maximize post-consumer recycled content. 

Collaborate for Change. Aligning with strategic partners to combine resources, expertise and corporate voices to find impactful ways to create a circular economy which includes technology investments to facilitate the reuse, collection and recycling of plastic. Two of our leading partners are the Alliance to End Plastic Waste and the Materials Recovery for the Future program. 

Global Operations

We operate through our subsidiaries and have a presence in the U.S. and the 47 other countries/regions listed below, enabling us to distribute our products to our customers in 124 countries/regions.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We face risks inherent in these international operations, such as currency fluctuations, inflation and political instability. Information on currency exchange risk appears in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Other risks attendant to our international operations are set forth in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Information on the impact of currency exchange on our Consolidated Financial Statements appears in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Financial information showing net sales for the year ended December 31, 2019 and total long-lived assets by geographic region as of December 31, 2019 appears in Note 6, “Segments,” which information is incorporated herein by reference. We maintain programs to comply with the various laws, rules and regulations related to the protection of the environment that we may be subject to in the many countries/regions in which we operate. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the caption “Environmental Matters.”

Raw Materials and Purchasing

Suppliers provide raw materials, packaging components, contract manufactured goods, equipment and other direct materials, such as inks, films and paper. Our principal raw materials are polyolefin and other petrochemical-based resins, as well as paper and wood pulp products. Raw materials represent approximately one-third of our consolidated cost of sales. We also purchase corrugated materials, cores for rolls of products such as films and Bubble Wrap® brand cushioning, inks for printed materials, and blowing agents used in the expansion of foam packaging products. In addition, we offer a wide variety of 

6

specialized packaging equipment, some of which we manufacture or have manufactured to our specifications, some of which we assemble and some of which we purchase from suppliers. Equipment and accessories include industrial and food packaging equipment.

The vast majority of the raw materials required for the manufacture of our products and all components related to our equipment and accessories generally have been readily available on the open market, in most cases are available from several suppliers and are available in amounts sufficient to meet our manufacturing requirements. However, in some regions we have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material negative impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers and suppliers of other raw materials. Due to by-product/co-product chemical relationships to the automotive and housing markets, several materials may become difficult to source. These factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers. We purchase some materials used in our packaging products from materials recycled in our manufacturing operations or obtained through participation in recycling programs. Although we purchase some raw materials under long-term supply arrangements with third parties, these arrangements follow market forces and are in line with our overall global purchasing strategy, which seeks to balance the cost of acquisition and availability of supply.

We have a centralized supply chain organization, which includes centralized management of purchasing and logistic activities. Our objective is to leverage our global scale to achieve purchasing efficiencies and reduce our total delivered cost across all our regions. We do this while adhering to strategic performance metrics and stringent purchasing practices.

Competition

There are other manufacturers of Food Care's products, some that operate across multiple regions and others that operate in a single region or single country. Competing manufacturers produce a wide variety of food packaging based on plastic, metals and other materials. We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of flexible food packaging materials and related systems in the principal geographic areas in which we offer those products. 

Product Care competes against similar products made by other manufacturers and with alternative packaging materials that customers use to provide protection against damage to their products during shipment and storage. Among the competitive materials are paper packaging, expanded plastics, corrugated die cuts, strapping, envelopes, reinforced bags, and corrugated boxes as well as various types of molded foam plastics, fabricated foam plastics, mechanical shock mounts, wood blocking and bracing systems, and an assortment of automated packaging and fulfillment systems. We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of air cellular cushioning materials containing a barrier layer, inflatable packaging, suspension and retention packaging, shrink films for industrial and consumer applications, protective mailers, polyethylene foam and polyurethane foam packaging systems in the principal geographic areas in which we sell these products. 

Some of our competitors in both Food Care and Product Care have been consolidating in recent years or have been involved in significant merger and acquisition activity, and we believe this trend may continue. Such consolidation could have an adverse impact on the pricing of our products and services and our ability to retain customers, which could in turn adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

Seasonality

Historically, net sales in our Food Care segment have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter, due to holiday events. Net sales in our Product Care segment have also tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and higher in the mid-third quarter and through the fourth quarter due to the holiday shopping season. On a consolidated basis, there is little seasonality in the business, with net sales slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter. Our consolidated net earnings typically trend directionally the same as our net sales seasonality, though may be difficult to predict if significant one-time transactions, events or non-recurring charges were to impact our business. Cash flow from operations has tended to be lower in the first quarter and higher in the fourth quarter, reflecting seasonality of sales and working capital changes, including the timing of certain annual incentive compensation payments.

Other factors may outweigh the effects of seasonal changes in our net earnings results including, but not limited to, changes in raw materials and other costs, foreign exchange rates, interest rates, taxes and the timing and amount of acquisition synergies and restructuring and other non-recurring charges.

7

Research and Development Activities

We are advancing science and technology and creating new intellectual property which underpins the development of new solutions for our customers, including new, sustainable packaging materials, equipment automation and integration, applications knowledge, and support for our digital solutions. We maintain key external partnerships and are constantly searching for new partnerships that bring unique value, including licensing or acquiring new technologies developed by others. Our technical capabilities encompass a broad range of disciplines including food science, materials science, chemistry and chemical engineering, mechanical engineering, electrical and software engineering, microbiology, package design and engineering and equipment engineering. 

In order to best position ourselves for delivering innovative solutions that are compatible with our strategic intent, we rationalized our portfolio of innovation pipelines and focused our efforts to deliver projects that have faster speed to market and that have better chance of profitable growth. Therefore, our research and development expense was $77 million in 2019, $81 million in 2018 and $92 million in 2017.

Our research and development activities are focused on end-use applications. As a result, we operate:

•four comprehensive Packaging Development and Innovation Centers located in the U.S., Italy, and Singapore;

•seven Equipment Design Centers in the U.S., France, Switzerland, Italy and Singapore targeting innovation in equipment and digital solutions; and

•39 Package Design and Applications Centers for Product Care globally. 

In addition, we are expanding our R&D capabilities through acquisitions made in 2019, which included R&D teams and facilities.

Patents and Trademarks

We own or are the licensee of approximately 2,850 U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications, and approximately 2,600 U.S. and foreign trademark registrations and trademark applications that relate to many of our products, manufacturing processes and equipment. We believe that our patents and trademarks collectively provide a competitive advantage. We file annually an average of approximately 270 U.S. and foreign patent applications and approximately 40 U.S. and foreign trademark applications. None of our reportable segments is dependent upon any single patent or trademark alone. Rather, we believe that our success depends primarily on our sales and service, marketing, engineering and manufacturing skills and on our ongoing research and development efforts. We believe that the expiration or unenforceability of any of our patents, applications, licenses or trademark registrations would not be material to our business or consolidated financial condition.

Environmental, Health and Safety Matters

As a manufacturer, we are subject to various laws, rules and regulations in the countries/regions, jurisdictions and localities in which we operate. These cover: the safe storage and use of raw materials and production chemicals; the release of materials into the environment; standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; or otherwise relate to the protection of the environment. We have an environmental management system that aids in our management of environmental, health and safety matters pertaining to our operations. Key elements of this environmental management system are implemented throughout our operations. We believe that compliance with current environmental and workplace health and safety laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures or consolidated financial condition.

In some jurisdictions in which our packaging products are sold or used, laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that seek to regulate, among other things, minimum levels of recycled or reprocessed content and, more generally, the sale or disposal of packaging materials. We maintain programs designed to comply with these laws and regulations and to monitor their evolution. Various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regulate some of our products and require us to register certain products and comply with specified requirements. We are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that regulate products manufactured and sold by us for controlling microbial growth on humans, animals and processed foods. In the U.S., these requirements are generally administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). To date, the cost of complying with product registration requirements and FDA compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Our emphasis on environmental, health and safety compliance provides us with risk reduction opportunities and cost savings through asset protection and protection of employees. We have a policy in place that guides the Company in environmental, health and safety matters including training, materials conservation, communications, targets and transparency. 

8

Employees

As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 16,500 employees worldwide. Approximately 7,000 of these employees were in the U.S., with approximately 100 of these employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Of the approximately 9,500 employees who were outside the U.S., approximately 4,700 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Of our 4,800 employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, approximately 35%, primarily outside the U.S., will expire within the next year and we will be engaged in negotiations to attain new agreements. Many of the covered employees are represented by works councils or industrial boards, as is customary in the jurisdictions in which they are employed. We believe that our employee relations are satisfactory.

Available Information

Our Internet address is www.sealedair.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through our website, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports that we file or furnish pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains these filings and they can be accessed via the Internet address https://www.sec.gov. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this Form 10-K.

9

Item 1A. Risk Factors