Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and applicable notes to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, and other information in this report, including Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A and Critical Accounting Policies and Cautionary Information at the end of this Item 7. The following section generally discusses 2019 and 2018 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018. Discussions of 2017 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2018 and 2017 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.

The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable business segment. Although revenue is analyzed by commodity, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of the rail network. 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

2019 Results

Safety – While 2019 was a year of significant operational change at the Company, we remained committed to the safety of our employees, our customers and the public. As we implemented Unified Plan 2020, we remained focused on identifying and managing risk and training our employees as their work environment changed. Despite these efforts, our safety results were not good enough. Our personal injury incidents per 200,000 employee-hours increased 11% from 2018 and our reportable derailment incident rate per million train miles increased 30%. Although there was a significant increase in reportable derailments for the year, we did see sequential improvement in the fourth quarter. We want every employee to return home safely every day and to eliminate all derailments, so we must do better in 2020 by identifying and implementing best practices in this ever changing environment. 

Network Operations: Unified Plan 2020 – The year began with a series of significant weather events. Heavy snowfall and harsh winter conditions in the Midwest and Pacific Northwest were followed by widespread flooding across the central and southern portions of our network. Despite the disruptions, we remained focused on the implementation of Unified Plan 2020, the Company’s plan for operating a safe, reliable and efficient railroad by increasing reliability of our service product, reducing variability in network operations, and improving resource utilization costs.

Although our operational changes were impacted by weather in the early part of 2019, our key performance indicators have improved substantially year-over-year. Improvement in asset utilization and fewer car classifications led to 17% improvement in freight car terminal dwell and 6% improvement in freight car velocity. We also saw 13% improvement in locomotive productivity and 2% improvement in work force productivity. Additional detail on these metrics are discussed in Other Operating / Performance and Financial Statistics of Item 7.

A component of Unified Plan 2020 is to look for ways to reduce “car touches” on our network, which ultimately results in opportunities to reduce the number of terminals where we perform switching activities. Our terminal rationalization efforts in 2019 include no longer humping cars at our yards in Pine Bluff, AR, Proviso (Chicago), IL, Hinkle, OR and Neff yard in Kansas City, MO. In addition, we have curtailed switching and equipment maintenance operations at various locations throughout the network. 

Freight Revenues – Our freight revenues decreased 5% year-over-year to $20.2 billion driven by a volume decline of 6% and negative mix of traffic, partially offset by core pricing gains. We saw weak demand in several markets, particularly intermodal, coal, frac sand, grain, finished vehicles and lumber. These declines were partially offset by growth in petroleum products, construction materials, plastics, wheat and hazardous waste markets. 

Financial Results – In 2019, we generated operating income of $8.6 billion, flat with 2018 despite the 6% carload decline. Lower volumes, productivity initiatives and lower fuel prices drove operating expenses down 8% from 2018. These factors coupled with improved pricing offset the impact of the revenue decline and drove an all-time record 60.6% operating ratio, improving 2.1 points from 2018.  

25

Net income of nearly $6.0 billion translated into earnings of $8.38 per diluted share, up 6% from last year.

Fuel Prices – Our average price of diesel fuel in 2019 was $2.13 per gallon, a decrease of 7% from 2018. The lower price resulted in lower operating expenses of $144 million (excluding any impact from year-over-year volume declines). Gross-ton miles decreased 9% and our fuel consumption rate, computed as gallons of fuel consumed divided by gross ton-miles, improved 2%, both of which drove lower fuel expense. 

Cash Provided by Operating Activities and Free Cash Flow – Cash generated by operating activities totaled nearly $8.6 billion, yielding free cash flow of $2.6 billion after reductions of $3.4 billion for cash used in investing activities and $2.6 billion in dividends, which included two 10% increases in our quarterly dividend per share from $0.80 in the fourth quarter of 2018 to $0.88 in the first quarter of 2019 and $0.97 in the third quarter of 2019. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities less cash used in investing activities and dividends paid. 

Free cash flow is not considered a financial measure under GAAP by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe free cash flow is important to management and investors in evaluating our financial performance and measures our ability to generate cash without additional external financings. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, cash provided by operating activities. The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities (GAAP measure) to free cash flow (non-GAAP measure):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2020 Outlook

Safety – Operating a safe railroad benefits all our constituents: our employees, customers, shareholders and the communities we serve. We will continue using a multi-faceted approach to safety, utilizing technology, risk assessment, training and employee engagement, quality control, and targeted capital investments. We will continue using and expanding the deployment of Total Safety Culture, Courage to Care and COMMIT (Coaching, Observing, Mentoring and Motivating with Integrity and Trust) throughout our operations, which allows us to identify and implement best practices for employee and operational safety. We have formed an Operating Practices Command Center to identify causes of mainline service interruptions and develop solutions. In addition, they assist employees with understanding policies, procedures and best practices for handling trains. We will continue our efforts to utilize data to identify and mitigate risk; detect rail defects; improve or close crossings; and educate the public and law enforcement agencies about crossing safety through a combination of our own programs (including risk assessment strategies), industry programs and local community activities across the network. 

Network Operations – In 2020, we will continue to implement Unified Plan 2020 and G55+0 initiatives to further increase reliability of our service product, reduce variability in network operations, and improve resource utilization. Continued implementation of these initiatives will include utilizing our existing network capacity, longer train length, and fewer car touches resulting in additional terminal consolidation opportunities, improved asset utilization, and fewer car classifications. These additional changes, combined with other G55+0 initiatives, are designed to better align our management structure and decision making processes to be more agile and responsive to our customers’ needs.

Market Conditions – We expect uncertainties in various markets to continue in 2020. Similar to 2019, natural gas prices and weather conditions may impact demand for coal; crude oil price spreads may drive demand for petroleum products and drilling materials; available truck capacity could impact our intermodal business; and international trade agreements such as United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement and “Phase One” with China should promote trade.

26

Fuel Prices – Projections for crude oil and natural gas continue to fluctuate in the current environment. We again could see volatile fuel prices during the year, as they are sensitive to global and U.S. domestic demand, refining capacity, geopolitical events, weather conditions and other factors. As prices fluctuate, there will be a timing impact on earnings, as our fuel surcharge programs trail increases or decreases in fuel price by approximately two months.

Significant changes in fuel prices could have an impact on the amount of consumer discretionary spending, impacting demand for various consumer products we transport. Alternatively, those changes could have an inverse impact on commodities such as coal and domestic drilling-related shipments. 

Capital Plan – In 2020, we expect our capital plan to be approximately $3.1 billion, down slightly compared to 2019. It is anticipated that capital spending in most asset categories will be flat or down compared to 2019 spending. In addition, this plan includes an increase in capacity and facility investments intended to improve productivity and operational efficiency. The capital plan may be revised if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. (See further discussion in this Item 7 under Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Plan).

Financial Expectations – We expect volume to be slightly positive in 2020 compared to 2019. In the current environment, we expect continued margin improvement driven by pricing opportunities in excess of inflation, ongoing G55+0 productivity initiatives, including Unified Plan 2020, resulting in at least $500 million of productivity savings, while better leveraging our resources and strengthening our franchise.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Operating Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We generate freight revenues by transporting freight or other materials from our four commodity groups. Freight revenues vary with volume (carloads) and average revenue per car (ARC). Changes in price, traffic mix and fuel surcharges drive ARC. Customer incentives, which are primarily provided for shipping to/from specific locations or based on cumulative volumes, are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues. Customer incentives that include variable consideration based on cumulative volumes are estimated using the expected value method, which is based on available historical, current, and forecasted volumes, and recognized as the related performance obligation is satisfied. We recognize freight revenues over time as shipments move from origin to destination. The allocation of revenue between reporting periods is based on the relative transit time in each reporting period with expenses recognized as incurred.

Other revenues consist primarily of revenues earned by our other subsidiaries (primarily logistics and commuter rail operations) and accessorial revenues. Other subsidiary revenues are generally recognized over time as shipments move from origin to destination. The allocation of revenue between reporting periods is based on the relative transit time in each reporting period with expenses recognized as incurred. Accessorial revenues are recognized at a point in time as performance obligations are satisfied.

Freight revenues decreased 5% year-over-year to $20.2 billion driven by a 6% volume decline and negative mix of traffic, partially offset by core pricing gains. We saw weak demand in several markets, particularly intermodal, coal, frac sand, grain, finished vehicles and lumber. These declines were partially offset by growth in petroleum products, construction materials, plastics, wheat and hazardous waste markets. 

27

Our fuel surcharge programs generated freight revenues of $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Fuel surcharge revenue in 2019 decreased $183 million as a result of a 6% decline in carloadings and a 7% decrease in fuel price.

In 2019, other revenues increased from 2018 driven by higher accessorial charges focused on incentivizing customers’ efficient use of Company assets partially offset by volume declines.

The following tables summarize the year-over-year changes in freight revenues, revenue carloads, and ARC by commodity type:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[a]For intermodal shipments, each container or trailer equals one carload.

Agricultural Products – Freight revenue from agricultural products shipments decreased in 2019 compared to 2018 due to 3% volume decline partially offset by core pricing gains. Declines in export grain and grain products were partially offset by stronger wheat shipments compared to 2018. The volume declines were also impacted by weather-related challenges experienced in the first half of 2019.

2019 Agricultural Products Carloads

‎  

28

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018, driven by a 7% decline in volume partially offset by core pricing gains. The decrease in volume was driven by fewer shipments of automotive parts, grain, coal, intermodal and finished vehicles partially offset by growth in petroleum products, metallic minerals, beverages and industrial chemicals shipments.

‎  

29

Operating Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating expenses decreased $1.2 billion in 2019 compared to 2018 driven by productivity improvements, cost savings from lower volume and lower fuel prices. Increased costs due to inflation, higher casualty costs and depreciation partially offset these decreases compared to 2018. In addition, expenses were impacted favorably due to the employment tax refund (Railroad Retirement Taxes paid on certain stock awards to its employees and certain bonus payments it made to labor agreement employees), and negatively due to the first half weather-related challenges (net of insurance recovery recognized in the fourth quarter). 

2019 Operating Expenses

Compensation and Benefits – Compensation and benefits include wages, payroll taxes, health and welfare costs, pension costs, other postretirement benefits, and incentive costs. In 2019, expenses decreased 10% compared to 2018, due to volume-related costs, reduced workforce levels and the employment tax refund. Wage inflation, weather-related challenges and workforce reduction expenses partially offset the year-over-year improvement. 

Fuel – Fuel includes locomotive fuel and gasoline for highway and non-highway vehicles and heavy equipment. Locomotive diesel fuel prices, which averaged $2.13 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2019, compared to $2.29 per gallon in 2018, decreased expenses $144 million. Gross-ton miles decreased 9% and our fuel consumption rate, computed as gallons of fuel consumed divided by gross ton-miles, improved 2%, which both drove lower fuel expense. 

Purchased Services and Materials – Expense for purchased services and materials includes the costs of services purchased from outside contractors and other service providers (including equipment maintenance and contract expenses incurred by our subsidiaries for external transportation services); materials used to maintain the Railroad’s lines, structures, and equipment; costs of operating facilities jointly used by UPRR and other railroads; transportation and lodging for train crew employees; trucking and contracting costs for intermodal containers; leased automobile maintenance expenses; and tools and supplies. Purchased services and materials decreased 8% in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to volume-related costs for intermodal and transload services, lower locomotive expense due to a smaller active fleet, and lower costs for services purchased from outside contractors. Higher costs associated with derailments and weather-related challenges partially offset these reductions.

Depreciation – The majority of depreciation relates to road property, including rail, ties, ballast, and other track material. A higher depreciable asset base increased depreciation expense in 2019 compared to 2018. 

Equipment and Other Rents – Equipment and other rents expense primarily includes rental expense that the Railroad pays for freight cars owned by other railroads or private companies; freight car, intermodal, and locomotive leases; and office and other rent expenses. Equity income from certain equity method investments is also included. Equipment and other rents expense decreased 8% compared to 2018 largely driven by volume declines, improved freight car cycle times and lower locomotive, freight car and container lease expenses.

30

Other – Other expenses include state and local taxes, freight, equipment and property damage, utilities, insurance, personal injury, environmental, employee travel, telephone and cellular, computer software, bad debt, and other general expenses. Other expenses increased 4% in 2019 compared to 2018 as a result of higher casualty costs and state and local taxes. Lower costs associated with employee travel and an insurance reimbursement for weather-related expenses incurred earlier in the year partially offset these increases.

Non-Operating Items

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other Income – Other income increased in 2019 compared to 2018 due to $85 million of expense associated with early-extinguishment of outstanding debentures and mortgage bonds in 2018, $31 million in interest income associated with the employment tax refund in 2019 and lower costs associated with our benefit plans.

Interest Expense – Interest expense increased in 2019 compared to 2018 due to an increased weighted-average debt level of $24.8 billion in 2019 from $20.1 billion in 2018 partially offset by the impact of a lower effective interest rate of 4.3% in 2019 compared to 4.4 % in 2018.

Income Taxes – Income tax expense increased 3% in 2019 compared to 2018. Our effective tax rate for 2019 increased 0.7 points to 23.6% compared to 22.9% in 2018. The increase was driven by higher state and foreign taxes as compared to the prior year.

OTHER OPERATING/PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS

We report a number of key performance measures weekly to the STB. We provide this data on our website at www.up.com/investor/aar-stb_reports/index.htm.

Operating/Performance Statistics

Railroad performance measures are included in the table below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[a] Prior years have been recast to conform to the current year presentation which reflects minor refinements. 

[b] As reported to the STB.

Gross and Revenue Ton-Miles – Gross ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of loaded and empty freight cars by the number of miles hauled. Revenue ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of freight by the number of tariff miles. Gross ton-miles and revenue ton-miles decreased 9% and 11%, respectively in 2019 compared to 2018, driven by a 6% decline in carloadings. Changes in commodity mix drove the variance in year-over-year decreases between gross ton-miles, revenue ton-miles and carloads.

31

Freight Car Velocity – Freight car velocity measures the average daily miles per car on our network. The two key drivers of this metric are the speed of the train between terminals (average train speed) and the time a rail car spends at the terminals (average terminal dwell time). Implementation of Unified Plan 2020 drove the 6% improvement from 2018. Average terminal dwell time in 2019 decreased 17% compared to 2018 largely due to improved terminal processes, transportation plan changes to eliminate switches, and a decrease in freight car inventory levels. Partially offsetting the improvements in terminal dwell, average train speed in 2019 declined 4% compared to 2018, largely due to an increase in work events and weather-related challenges in the first half of the year, however the overall movement of freight cars is faster. 

Locomotive Productivity – Locomotive productivity is gross ton-miles per average daily locomotive horsepower. Locomotive productivity increased 13% in 2019 compared to 2018 driven by a 20% reduction in our average active fleet size.

Workforce Productivity – Workforce productivity is average daily car miles per employee. Workforce productivity improved 2% as average daily car miles decreased 9% while employees decreased 11% compared to 2018. Lower carload volumes drove the decline in average daily car miles. The 11% decline in employee levels was driven by a 6% decline in carload volumes, initiatives to further right-size the workforce and a smaller capital workforce. At the end of 2019, approximately 5,000 employees across all crafts were either furloughed or in alternate work status.

Operating Ratio – Operating ratio is our operating expenses reflected as a percentage of operating revenue. Our operating ratio of 60.6% was an all-time record and improved 2.1 points compared to 2018 mainly driven by productivity initiatives, core pricing gains, and lower fuel prices, which were partially offset by inflation, increased casualty costs and other cost hurdles.

Return on Average Common Shareholders’ Equity

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Return on Invested Capital as Adjusted (ROIC)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ROIC is considered a non-GAAP financial measure by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of our long-term capital investments. In addition, we currently use ROIC as a performance criteria in determining certain elements of equity compensation for our executives. ROIC should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, other information provided in accordance with GAAP. The most comparable GAAP measure is Return on Average Common Shareholders’ Equity. The tables above provide reconciliations from return on average common shareholders’ equity to ROIC. At both December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the incremental borrowing rate on operating leases was 3.7%. At December 31, 2017 our operating leases were discounted using our effective interest rate on debt of 4.6%. 

32

Net Return on Invested Capital as Adjusted (Net ROIC)

The table below reconciles ROIC as previously calculated to Net ROIC for items affecting comparability.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[a]Adjustments remove the impact of $5.9 billion and $139 million from both 12/31/17 Net Income and 12/31/17 Shareholders’ Equity. 

Net ROIC is considered a non-GAAP financial measure by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of our long-term capital investments. We use Net ROIC to demonstrate year over year comparability for significant items. Net ROIC should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, other information provided in accordance with GAAP. The most comparable GAAP measure is Return on Average Common Shareholders’ Equity. 

Adjusted Debt / Adjusted EBITDA

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted debt to Adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and adjustments for other income and interest on present value of operating leases) is considered a non-GAAP financial measure by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the Company’s ability to sustain given debt levels (including leases) with the cash generated from operations. In addition, a comparable measure is used by rating agencies when reviewing the Company’s credit rating. Adjusted debt to Adjusted EBITDA should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, net income. The table above provides reconciliations from net income to adjusted debt to adjusted EBITDA. At both December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the incremental borrowing rate on operating leases was 3.7%. At December 31, 2017, operating leases were discounted using our effective interest rate on debt of 4.6%.

‎  

33

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At both December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had a working capital deficit. The deficits are primarily due to upcoming debt maturities. As past years indicate, it is not unusual for us to have a working capital deficit; however, we believe it is not an indication of a lack of liquidity. We also maintain adequate resources, including our credit facility, and when necessary, access to capital markets to meet any foreseeable cash requirements.

As of December 31, 2019, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents, our receivables securitization facility, and our revolving credit facility, as well as the availability of commercial paper and other sources of financing through the capital markets. We had $2.0 billion of committed credit available under our credit facility, with no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2019. We did not draw on our current facility or previous facility at any time during 2019. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the $800 million capacity receivables securitization facility was $400 million as of December 31, 2019. Our access to this receivables securitization facility may be reduced or restricted if our bond ratings fall to certain levels below investment grade. If our bond rating were to deteriorate, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Access to commercial paper as well as other capital market financings is dependent on market conditions. Deterioration of our operating results or financial condition due to internal or external factors could negatively impact our ability to access capital markets as a source of liquidity. Access to liquidity through the capital markets is also dependent on our financial stability. We expect that we will continue to have access to liquidity through any or all of the following sources or activities: (i) increasing the size or utilization of our receivables securitization, (ii) issuing commercial paper, (iii) entering into bank loans, outside of our revolving credit facility, or (iv) issuing bonds or other debt securities to public or private investors based on our assessment of the current condition of the credit markets. The Company’s $2.0 billion revolving credit facility is intended to support the issuance of commercial paper by UPC and also serves as an additional source of liquidity to fund short term needs. The Company currently does not intend to make any borrowings under this facility.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

Cash provided by operating activities decreased in 2019 compared to 2018 due primarily to lower net income.

‎  

34

Investing Activities

Cash used in investing activities in 2019 increased compared to 2018.

The following tables detail cash capital investments and track statistics for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[a]Other includes bridges and tunnels, signals, other road assets, and road work equipment.

[b]Locomotives and freight cars include early lease buyouts of $290 million in 2019, $290 million in 2018, and $173 million in 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Capital Plan – In 2020, we expect our capital plan to be approximately $3.1 billion, which may be revised if business conditions or the regulatory environment affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. While asset replacements will fluctuate as part of our renewal strategy, we expect to use 75% to 80% of our capital investments to renew and improve existing capital assets. We will continue to balance investment in our network infrastructure and terminal capacity as appropriate, including new capacity investments designed to improve productivity and operational efficiency. Significant investments will be made for locomotive modernization and freight car replacements.

We expect to fund our 2020 cash capital plan by using some or all of the following: cash generated from operations, proceeds from the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, and cash on hand. Our annual capital plan is a critical component of our long-term strategic plan. We expect our plan will enhance the long-term value of the Company for our shareholders by providing sufficient resources to (i) replace and improve our existing track infrastructure to provide safe and fluid operations, (ii) increase network efficiency and productivity by adding or improving facilities and track, and (iii) make investments that meet customer demand and take advantage of opportunities for long-term growth.

Financing Activities

Cash used in financing activities increased in 2019 compared to 2018 driven by higher dividend payments in 2019 of $2,598 million compared to $2,299 million in 2018, reflecting higher dividends per share. Decreases in net debt issued of $2,574 were mostly offset by a decrease in share repurchase programs of $2,421 million.

See Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of all our outstanding financing arrangements and significant new borrowings. 

35

Share Repurchase Programs

Effective April 1, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 150 million shares of our common stock by March 31, 2022, replacing our previous repurchase program. These repurchases may be made on the open market or through other transactions. Our management has sole discretion with respect to determining the timing and amount of these transactions. As of December 31, 2019, we repurchased a total of $37.2 billion of our common stock since commencement of our repurchase programs in 2007. The table below represents shares repurchased under repurchase programs during 2018 and 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[a]Includes 11,795,930 shares repurchased in February 2019 under accelerated share repurchase programs.

[b]Includes 19,870,292 shares repurchased in June 2018 under accelerated share repurchase programs.

[c]Includes 3,172,900 shares repurchased in August 2019 under accelerated share repurchase programs.

[d]Includes 4,457,356 shares repurchased in October 2018 under accelerated share repurchase programs. 

Management's assessments of market conditions and other pertinent factors guide the timing and volume of all repurchases. We expect to fund any share repurchases under this program through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand. Open market repurchases are recorded in treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees.

From January 1, 2020, through February 6, 2020, we repurchased 2.7 million shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $493 million.

Accelerated Share Repurchase Programs – The Company has established accelerated share repurchase programs (ASRs) with financial institutions to repurchase shares of our common stock. These ASRs have been structured so that at the time of commencement, we pay a specified amount to the financial institutions and receive an initial delivery of shares. Additional shares may be received at the time of settlement. The final number of shares to be received is based on the volume weighted average price of the Company’s common stock during the ASR term, less a discount and subject to potential adjustments pursuant to the terms of such ASR.

On February 26, 2019, the Company received 11,795,930 shares of its common stock repurchased under ASRs for an aggregate of $2.5 billion. Upon settlement of these ASRs in the third quarter of 2019, we received 3,172,900 additional shares.

On June 15, 2018, the Company received 19,870,292 shares of its common stock repurchased under ASRs for an aggregate of $3.6 billion. Upon settlement of these ASRs in the fourth quarter of 2018, we received 4,457,356 additional shares. 

ASRs are accounted for as equity transactions, and at the time of receipt, shares are included in treasury stock at fair market value as of the corresponding initiation or settlement date. The Company reflects shares received as a repurchase of common stock in the weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for basic and diluted earnings per share.

‎  

36

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments

As described in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and as referenced in the tables below, we have contractual obligations and commercial commitments that may affect our financial condition. Based on our assessment of the underlying provisions and circumstances of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, including material sources of off-balance sheet and structured finance arrangements, other than the risks that we and other similarly situated companies face with respect to the condition of the capital markets (as described in Item 1A of Part II of this report), there is no known trend, demand, commitment, event, or uncertainty that is reasonably likely to occur that would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. In addition, our commercial obligations, financings, and commitments are customary transactions that are similar to those of other comparable corporations, particularly within the transportation industry.

The following tables identify material obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[a]Excludes finance lease obligations of $605 million, as well as unamortized discount and deferred issuance costs of ($1,194) million. Includes an interest component of $18,078 million.

[b]Includes leases for locomotives, freight cars, other equipment, and real estate. 

[c]Represents total obligations, including interest component of $102 million.

[d]Purchase obligations include locomotive maintenance contracts; purchase commitments for fuel purchases, ties, ballast, and rail; and agreements to purchase other goods and services. For amounts where we cannot reasonably estimate the year of settlement, they are reflected in the Other column.

[e]Includes estimated other post retirement, medical, and life insurance payments, payments made under the unfunded pension plan for the next ten years. 

[f]Future cash flows for income tax contingencies reflect the recorded liabilities and assets for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, as of December 31, 2019. For amounts where the year of settlement is uncertain, they are reflected in the Other column.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[a]None of the credit facility was used as of December 31, 2019.

[b]$400 million of the receivables securitization facility was utilized as of December 31, 2019, which is accounted for as debt. The full program matures in July 2022.

[c]Includes guaranteed obligations related to our affiliated operations.

[d]None of the letters of credit were drawn upon as of December 31, 2019.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Guarantees – At December 31, 2019, and 2018, we were contingently liable for $15 million and $22 million in guarantees. The fair value of these obligations as of both December 31, 2019, and 2018, was $0. We entered into these contingent guarantees in the normal course of business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our affiliated operations. The final guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect that these  

37

guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.

OTHER MATTERS

Labor Agreements – Approximately 85% of our full-time employees are represented by 14 major rail unions. Pursuant to the Railway Labor Act (RLA), our collective bargaining agreements are subject to modification every five years. Existing agreements remain in effect until new agreements are ratified or until the RLA procedures are exhausted. The RLA procedures include mediation, potential arbitration, cooling-off periods, and the possibility of Presidential Emergency Boards and Congressional intervention. The current round of negotiations began on January 1, 2020 related to years 2020-2024. Contract negotiations historically continue for an extended period of time, and work stoppages during negotiations are rare.

Inflation – Long periods of inflation significantly increase asset replacement costs for capital-intensive companies. As a result, assuming that we replace all operating assets at current price levels, depreciation charges (on an inflation-adjusted basis) would be substantially greater than historically reported amounts. 

Sensitivity Analyses – The sensitivity analyses that follow illustrate the economic effect that hypothetical changes in interest rates could have on our results of operations and financial condition. These hypothetical changes do not consider other factors that could impact actual results.

At December 31, 2019, we had variable-rate debt representing approximately 3.4% of our total debt. If variable interest rates average one percentage point higher in 2020 than our December 31, 2019 variable rate, which was approximately 2.5%, our interest expense would increase by approximately $8.5 million. This amount was determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rate on the balances of our variable-rate debt at December 31, 2019.

Market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical one percentage point decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2019, and amounts to an increase of approximately $3.4 billion to the fair value of our debt at December 31, 2019. We estimated the fair values of our fixed-rate debt by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on quoted market prices and current borrowing rates.

Accounting Pronouncements – See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Asserted and Unasserted Claims – Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. We cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. To the extent possible, we have recorded a liability where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable and where such claims can be reasonably estimated. We do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into account liabilities and insurance recoveries previously recorded for these matters.

Indemnities – Our maximum potential exposure under indemnification arrangements, including certain tax indemnifications, can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the probability of an adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do not have any reason to believe that we will be required to make any material payments under these indemnity provisions.

Climate Change – Although climate change could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial performance in the future (see Risk Factors under Item 1A of this report), we are currently unable to predict the manner or severity of such impact. However, we continue to take steps and explore opportunities to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment, including investments in new technologies, using training programs and technology to reduce fuel consumption, and changing our operations to increase fuel efficiency.

38

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimation and judgment that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The following critical accounting policies are a subset of our significant accounting policies described in Note 2 to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. These critical accounting policies affect significant areas of our financial statements and involve judgment and estimates. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements may be material.

Personal Injury – The cost of personal injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability, including unasserted claims. The Federal Employers’ Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related accidents. Under FELA, damages are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at work.

Our personal injury liability is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Approximately 94% of the recorded liability is related to asserted claims and approximately 6% is related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2019. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of personal injury claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $265 million to $289 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other. Estimates can vary over time due to evolving trends in litigation.

Our personal injury liability activity was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our personal injury claims activity was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We reassess our estimated insurance recoveries annually and have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2019, and 2018. Any changes to recorded insurance recoveries are included in the above table in the Changes in estimates for prior years category.

Environmental Costs – We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. We have identified 360 sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes 31 sites that are the subject of actions taken by the U.S. government, 20 of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate environmental liability may include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site.

39

When we identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we perform, with assistance of our consultants, environmental assessments on the property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. Our environmental liability is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments.

Our environmental liability activity was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our environmental site activity was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The environmental liability includes future costs for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing monitoring costs, but excludes any anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and regulations. The ultimate liability for remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing environmental remediation. Current obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.

Property and Depreciation – Our railroad operations are highly capital intensive, and our large base of homogeneous, network-type assets turns over on a continuous basis. Each year we develop a capital program for the replacement of assets and for the acquisition or construction of assets that enables us to enhance our operations or provide new service offerings to customers. Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year are capitalized if they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria. Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, and yard and switching tracks) for which lives are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track. We use the group method of depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes, and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items. We currently have more than 60 depreciable asset classes, and we may increase or decrease the number of asset classes due to changes in technology, asset strategies, or other factors.

We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property by means of depreciation studies. We perform depreciation studies at least every three years for equipment and every six years for track assets (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast) and other road property. Our depreciation studies take into account the following factors:

Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each of our asset classes;

Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for continued use of the assets;

Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices; and

Expected salvage to be received upon retirement.

40

For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we measure estimated service lives in millions of gross tons per mile of track. It has been our experience that the lives of rail in high-density traffic corridors are closely correlated to usage (i.e., the amount of weight carried over the rail). The service lives also vary based on rail weight, rail condition (e.g., new or secondhand), and rail type (e.g., straight or curve). Our depreciation studies for rail in high-density traffic corridors consider each of these factors in determining the estimated service lives. For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we calculate depreciation rates annually by dividing the number of gross ton-miles carried over the rail (i.e., the weight of loaded and empty freight cars, locomotives and maintenance of way equipment transported over the rail) by the estimated service lives of the rail measured in millions of gross tons per mile. Rail in high-density traffic corridors accounts for approximately 70 percent of the historical cost of rail and other track material. Based on the number of gross ton-miles carried over our rail in high density traffic corridors during 2019, the estimated service lives of the majority of this rail ranged from approximately 21 years to approximately 45 years. For all other depreciable assets, we compute depreciation based on the estimated service lives of our assets as determined from the analysis of our depreciation studies. Changes in the estimated service lives of our assets and their related depreciation rates are implemented prospectively.

Estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property may vary over time due to changes in physical use, technology, asset strategies, and other factors that will have an impact on the retirement profiles of our assets. We are not aware of any specific factors that are reasonably likely to significantly change the estimated service lives of our assets. Actual use and retirement of our assets may vary from our current estimates, which would impact the amount of depreciation expense recognized in future periods.

Changes in estimated useful lives of our assets due to the results of our depreciation studies could significantly impact future periods’ depreciation expense and have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were increased by one year, annual depreciation expense would decrease by approximately $68 million. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were decreased by one year, annual depreciation expense would increase by approximately $73 million. Our 2019 depreciation studies have resulted in lower depreciation rates for some asset classes. These lower rates will partially offset the impact of a projected higher depreciable asset base, resulting in an increase in total depreciation expense by approximately 2% in 2020 versus 2019.

Under group depreciation, the historical cost (net of salvage) of depreciable property that is retired or replaced in the ordinary course of business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized. The historical cost of certain track assets is estimated by multiplying the current replacement cost of track assets by a historical index factor derived from (i) inflation indices published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and (ii) the estimated useful lives of the assets as determined by our depreciation studies. The indices were selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the properties comprising the applicable track asset classes. Because of the number of estimates inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of property is completely retired, we continually monitor the estimated service lives of our assets and the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset class to ensure our depreciation rates are appropriate. In addition, we determine if the recorded amount of accumulated depreciation is deficient (or in excess) of the amount indicated by our depreciation studies. Any deficiency (or excess) is amortized as a component of depreciation expense over the remaining service lives of the applicable classes of assets.

For retirements of depreciable railroad properties that do not occur in the normal course of business, a gain or loss may be recognized if the retirement meets each of the following three conditions: (i) it is unusual, (ii) it is material in amount, and (iii) it varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through our depreciation studies. During the last three fiscal years, no gains or losses were recognized due to the retirement of depreciable railroad properties. A gain or loss is recognized in other income when we sell land or dispose of assets that are not part of our railroad operations.

Income Taxes – We account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on current tax law; the effects of future tax legislation are not anticipated. Future tax legislation, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. For example, a permanent 1% increase in future income tax rates would increase our deferred tax liability by approximately $507 million. Similarly, a permanent 1% decrease in future income tax rates would decrease our deferred tax liability by approximately $507 million.

41

When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management’s judgments using available evidence for purposes of estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset. In 2019 and 2018, there were no valuation allowances.

We recognize tax benefits that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for “unrecognized tax benefits” is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards.

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits – We use an actuarial analysis to measure the liabilities and expenses associated with providing pension and medical and life insurance benefits (OPEB) to eligible employees. In order to use actuarial methods to value the liabilities and expenses, we must make several assumptions. The critical assumptions used to measure pension obligations and expenses are the discount rates and expected rate of return on pension assets. For OPEB, the critical assumptions are the discount rates and health care cost trend rate.

We evaluate our critical assumptions at least annually, and selected assumptions are based on the following factors:

We measure the service cost and interest cost components of our net periodic benefit cost by using individual spot rates matched with separate cash flows for each future year. Discount rates are based on a Mercer yield curve of high quality corporate bonds (rated AA by a recognized rating agency).

Expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into consideration current and expected market conditions.

Health care cost trend rate is based on our historical rates of inflation and expected market conditions.

The following tables present the key assumptions used to measure net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) for 2020 and the estimated impact on 2020 net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) relative to a change in those assumptions:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table presents the net periodic pension and OPEB cost for the years ended December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

42

CAUTIONARY INFORMATION

Certain statements in this report, and statements in other reports or information filed or to be filed with the SEC (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us), are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements and information include, without limitation, statements in the Chairman’s letter preceding Part I; statements regarding planned capital expenditures under the caption “2020 Capital Plan” in Item 2 of Part I; and statements and information set forth under the captions “2020 Outlook”; “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of Part II regarding our capital plan, “Share Repurchase Programs”, “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, and Commercial Commitments”, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits”, and “Other Matters” in this Item 7 of Part II. Forward-looking statements and information also include any other statements or information in this report (including information incorporated herein by reference) regarding: expectations as to cost savings, revenue growth and earnings; the time by which goals, targets, or objectives will be achieved; projections, predictions, expectations, estimates, or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results, future economic performance, and general economic conditions; expectations as to operational or service performance or improvements; expectations as to the effectiveness of steps taken or to be taken to improve operations and/or service, including capital expenditures for infrastructure improvements and equipment acquisitions, any strategic business acquisitions, and modifications to our transportation plans, including implementation of PTC; expectations as to existing or proposed new products and services; expectations as to the impact of any new regulatory activities or legislation on our operations or financial results; estimates of costs relating to environmental remediation and restoration; estimates and expectations regarding tax matters; expectations that claims, litigation, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity and any other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects” and similar words, phrases or expressions.

Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements and information are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements and information. Forward-looking statements and information reflect the good faith consideration by management of currently available information, and may be based on underlying assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, such information and assumptions (and, therefore, such forward-looking statements and information) are or may be subject to variables or unknown or unforeseeable events or circumstances over which management has little or no influence or control. The Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report could affect our future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements or information. To the extent circumstances require or we deem it otherwise necessary, we will update or amend these risk factors in a Form 10-Q, Form 8-K or subsequent Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, these Risk Factors.

Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement was made. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk