Item 7A. Quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk

Interest rate risk

The Company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to existing variable-rate debt instruments and future incurrences of fixed or variable-rate debt, which exposure primarily relates to movements in various interest rates, such as U.S treasury rates and commercial paper rates. From time to time, the Company uses interest rate swaps and forward-starting interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to the impact of interest rate changes on existing debt and future debt issuances respectively, to reduce the volatility of financing costs and, based on current and projected market conditions, achieve a desired proportion of fixed-rate versus floating-rate debt. Generally under these swaps, the Company agrees with a counterparty to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed upon notional principal amount.

The Chief Executive of the UK Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”), which regulates the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, has announced that the FCA will no longer compel LIBOR panel banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. That announcement indicates that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis will not be guaranteed after 2021. Moreover, it is possible that LIBOR may be discontinued prior to the end of 2021. Certain of our credit facilities provide that, under certain circumstances set forth in such credit facilities, we and the administrative agent may amend the applicable credit facility to replace LIBOR with an alternate benchmark rate, giving due consideration to any evolving or then existing convention for similar syndicated credit facilities in the U.S. market for alternative benchmarks. Such alternative benchmark rate could include the secured overnight financing rate, also known as SOFR, published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York

Information regarding the Company’s transactions are set forth in note 8, financial instruments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial instruments are sensitive to changes in interest rates. On August 31, 2020, the Company had no material long-term debt obligations that had floating interest rates. The amounts exclude the impact of any associated derivative contracts.

Foreign currency exchange rate risk

The Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily with respect to the British pound sterling and Euro, and certain other foreign currencies, which may affect its net investment in foreign subsidiaries and may cause fluctuations in cash flows related to foreign denominated transactions. The Company is also exposed to the translation of foreign currency earnings to the U.S. dollar. The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on non-functional currency cash flows. These transactions are almost exclusively less than 12 months in maturity. In addition, the Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts that are not designated in hedging relationships to offset, in part, the impacts of certain intercompany activities (primarily associated with intercompany financing transactions). Under certain market conditions, the Company may seek to protect against possible declines in the reported net investments of our foreign subsidiaries by using foreign currency cross-currency swaps, foreign currency forward-exchange contracts or foreign currency debt.

The Company’s foreign currency derivative instruments are sensitive to changes in exchange rates. A hypothetical 1% change in foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar would change the fair value of the foreign currency derivatives held as of August 31, 2020, by approximately $25 million. The foreign currency derivatives are intended to partially hedge anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables and net investments in foreign subsidiaries.

Equity price risk

Changes in AmerisourceBergen common stock price may have a significant impact on the fair value of the equity investment in AmerisourceBergen described in note 5, equity method investments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See “--Investment in AmerisourceBergen” above.

- 61 -
Item 8. Financial statements and supplementary data