ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

This discussion includes forward-looking statements. See ‘Disclaimer Regarding Forward-looking Statements’ for certain cautionary information regarding forward-looking statements and ‘Risk Factors’ in Item 1A for a list of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in those statements. 

This discussion includes references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined in the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (‘SEC’). We present such non-GAAP financial measures, specifically, adjusted, constant currency and organic non-GAAP financial measures, as we believe such information is of interest to the investment community because it provides additional meaningful methods of evaluating certain aspects of the Company’s operating performance from period to period on a basis that may not be otherwise apparent under U.S. GAAP, and these provide a measure against which our businesses may be assessed in the future. 

Our methods of calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. These financial measures should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2019. 

See ‘Non-GAAP Financial Measures’ below for further discussion of our adjusted, constant currency and organic non-GAAP financial measures. 

Executive Overview 

Business Overview 

Willis Towers Watson is a global advisory, broking and solutions company that helps clients around the world turn risk into a path for growth. With roots dating to 1828, Willis Towers Watson has more than 45,000 employees and services clients in more than 140 countries. We design and deliver solutions that manage risk, optimize benefits, cultivate talent, and expand the power of capital to protect and strengthen institutions and individuals. We believe our unique perspective allows us to see the critical intersections between talent, assets and ideas - the dynamic formula that drives business performance. 

We offer clients a broad range of services to help them to identify and control their risks, and to enhance business performance by improving their ability to attract, retain and engage a talented workforce. Our risk control services range from strategic risk consulting (including providing actuarial analysis), to a variety of due diligence services, to the provision of practical on-site risk control services (such as health and safety or property loss control consulting), as well as analytical and advisory services (such as hazard modeling and reinsurance optimization studies). We assist clients in planning how to manage incidents or crises when they occur. These services include contingency planning, security audits and product tampering plans. We help our clients enhance their business performance by delivering consulting services, technology and solutions that help organizations anticipate, identify and capitalize on emerging opportunities in human capital management as well as investment advice to help our clients develop disciplined and efficient strategies to meet their investment goals. 

As an insurance broker, we act as an intermediary between our clients and insurance carriers by advising our clients on their risk management requirements, helping them to determine the best means of managing risk and negotiating and placing insurance with insurance carriers through our global distribution network. We operate a private Medicare exchange in the U.S. Through this exchange and those for active employees, we help our clients move to a more sustainable economic model by capping and controlling the costs associated with healthcare benefits. 

We are not an insurance company, and therefore we do not underwrite insurable risks for our own account. 

We derive the majority of our revenue from either commissions or fees for broking or consulting services. No single client represented a significant concentration of our consolidated revenue for any of the periods presented. 

Our shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. 

36 

Market Conditions 

Due to the cyclical nature of the insurance market and the impact of other market conditions on insurance premiums, commission revenue may vary widely between accounting periods. A period of low or declining premium rates, generally known as a ‘soft’ or ‘softening’ market, generally leads to downward pressure on commission revenue and can have a material adverse impact on our revenue and operating margin. A ‘hard’ or ‘firming’ market, during which premium rates rise, generally has a favorable impact on our revenue and operating margin. Rates, however, vary by geography, industry and client segment. As a result, and due to the global and diverse nature of our business, we view rates in the aggregate. Overall, we are currently seeing a modest but definite improvement with pricing in the market. 

Market conditions in the broking industry in which we operate are generally defined by factors such as the strength of the economies in the various geographic regions in which we serve around the world, insurance rate movements, and insurance and reinsurance buying patterns of our clients.  

The terms of Brexit and its impact remain uncertain, and the Company is currently in the process of establishing appropriate arrangements for the continued servicing of client business in the countries expected to be most affected. For a further discussion of the risks of Brexit to the Company, see Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Typically, our business benefits from regulatory change, political risk or economic uncertainty. Insurance broking generally tracks the economy, but demand for both insurance broking and consulting services usually remains steady during times of uncertainty. We have some businesses, such as our health and benefits and administration businesses, which can be counter cyclical during the early period of a significant economic change. 

Although approximately 21% of our revenue is generated in the U.K. on an annual basis, only about 12% of revenue is denominated in Pounds sterling as much of the insurance business is transacted in U.S. dollars. Approximately 20% of our expenses is denominated in Pounds sterling, thus we generally benefit from a weakening Pound sterling in our income from operations. However, we have a Company hedging strategy for this aspect of our business, which is designed to mitigate significant fluctuations in currency. 

The markets for our consulting, technology and solutions, and marketplace services are affected by economic, regulatory and legislative changes, technological developments, and increased competition from established and new competitors. We believe that the primary factors in selecting a human resources or risk management consulting firm include reputation, the ability to provide measurable increases to shareholder value and return on investment, global scale, quality of service and the ability to tailor services to clients’ unique needs. In that regard, we are focused on developing and implementing technology, data and analytic solutions for both internal operations and for maintaining industry standards and meeting client preferences. We have made such investments from time to time and may decide, based on perceived business needs, to make investments in the future that may be greater than we currently anticipate. 

With regard to the market for exchanges, we believe that clients base their decisions on a variety of factors that include the ability of the provider to deliver measurable cost savings for clients, a strong reputation for efficient execution and an innovative service delivery model and platform. Part of the employer-sponsored insurance market has matured and become more fragmented while other segments remain in the entry phase. As these market segments continue to evolve, we may experience growth in intervals, with periods of accelerated expansion balanced by periods of modest growth. In recent years, growth in the market for exchanges has slowed, and we expect this trend may continue during 2020. 

See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussions of risks that may affect our ability to compete. 

37 

Financial Statement Overview 

The tables below set forth our summarized consolidated statements of comprehensive income and data as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated. For management’s discussion of our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 in comparison with the year ended December 31, 2017, please see our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 27, 2019. 

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 

($ in millions, except per share data) 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Consolidated Revenue 

We derive the majority of our revenue from commissions from our brokerage services and fees for consulting and administration services. No single client represented a significant concentration of our consolidated revenue for any of our three most recent fiscal years. 

The following table details our top five markets based on percentage of consolidated revenue (in U.S. dollars) from the countries where work was performed for the year ended December 31, 2019. These figures do not represent the currency of the related revenue, which is presented in the next table. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The table below details the percentage of our revenue and expenses by transactional currency for the year ended December 31, 2019. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i)  

These percentages exclude certain expenses for significant items which will not be settled in cash, or which we believe to be items that are not core to our current or future operations. These items include amortization of intangible assets and transaction and integration expenses. 

38 

The following table sets forth the total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 and the components of the change in total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to the prior year: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i)  

Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding. 

Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $9.0 billion, compared to $8.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, an increase of $526 million, or 6% on an as reported basis. Adjusting for the impact of foreign currency and acquisitions and disposals, our organic revenue growth was 5% for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in organic revenue was driven by strong performances in all segments. The revenue from acquisitions related primarily to TRANZACT, which generated revenue of $245 million. 

Our revenue can be materially impacted by changes in currency conversions, which can fluctuate significantly over the course of a calendar year. For the year ended December 31, 2019, currency translation decreased our consolidated revenue by $192 million. The primary currencies driving this change were the Euro and Pound sterling. 

Definitions of Constant Currency Change and Organic Change are included in the section entitled ‘Non-GAAP Financial Measures’ elsewhere within this Form 10-K. 

 Segment Revenue 

We manage our business across four reportable operating segments: Human Capital and Benefits; Corporate Risk and Broking; Investment, Risk and Reinsurance; and Benefits Delivery and Administration. 

Segment revenue excludes amounts that were directly incurred on behalf of our clients and reimbursed by them (reimbursed expenses); however, these amounts are included in consolidated revenue. 

The Company experiences seasonal fluctuations in its revenue. Revenue is typically higher during the Company’s first and fourth quarters due primarily to the timing of broking-related activities.  

Human Capital and Benefits (‘HCB’)  

The HCB segment provides an array of advice, broking, solutions and software for our clients. 

HCB is the largest segment of the Company, generating approximately 37% of our segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019. HCB is focused on addressing our clients’ people and risk needs to help them take on the challenges of operating in a global marketplace. This segment is further strengthened with teams of international consultants who provide support through each of our business units to the global headquarters of multinational clients and their foreign subsidiaries. 

The HCB segment provides services through four business units: 

•  

Retirement — The Retirement business provides actuarial support, plan design, and administrative services for traditional pension and retirement savings plans. We help our clients assess the costs and risks of retirement plans on cash flow, earnings and the balance sheet, the effects of changing workforce demographics on their retirement plans and retiree benefit adequacy and security. 

•  

Health and Benefits — The Health & Benefits business provides plan management consulting, broking and administration across the full spectrum of health and group benefit programs, including medical, dental, disability, life and other coverage. 

•  

Talent & Rewards — Our Talent & Rewards business provides advice, data, software and products to address clients’ total rewards and talent issues. 

•  

Technology and Administration Solutions — Our Technology and Administration Solutions business provides benefits outsourcing services to clients outside of the U.S. 

39 

The following table sets forth HCB segment revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the components of the change in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019 from the year ended December 31, 2018. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i)  

Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding. 

HCB segment revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was $3.3 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively. On an organic basis, and after factoring in the first-year adoption impact of ASC 606 in the prior year, Health and Benefits delivered revenue growth, driven by increased consulting and brokerage services, growth in specialty products in North America, and expansion of our client portfolio outside North America for both local and global appointments. Talent and Rewards generated solid revenue growth, resulting from increased demand in Data Services and advisory work across all geographies. Technology and Administration Solutions revenue also increased in connection with client wins and greater project demand in Great Britain and Western Europe. Retirement revenue was flat compared to the prior year as increased de-risking work was balanced by a decline in project work along with the negative impact of being an ‘off-year’ in the triennial valuation cycles in both Canada and Great Britain.  

For a further discussion of the impact of the adoption of ASC 606 on our results for the year ended December 31, 2018, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 27, 2019. 

Corporate Risk and Broking (‘CRB’)  

The CRB segment provides a broad range of risk advice, insurance broking and consulting services to clients worldwide ranging from small businesses to multinational corporations. This segment delivers integrated global solutions tailored to client needs and underpinned by data and analytics. 

CRB generated approximately 33% of our segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019, and places more than $20 billion of premiums into the insurance markets annually. 

CRB has three global offerings: 

•  

Property and Casualty — Property and Casualty provides property and liability insurance brokerage services across a wide range of industries including construction, real estate, healthcare and natural resources. 

•  

Financial Lines — Financial Lines specializes in brokerage services for financial, political and credit risks. 

•  

Transport — Transport provides specialist expertise to the transportation, aerospace, marine and inspace industries. 

The following table sets forth CRB segment revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the components of the change in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019 from the year ended December 31, 2018. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i)  

Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding. 

CRB segment revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was approximately $2.9 billion. The segment had solid growth across all geographies. On an organic basis, North America continued to lead the segment with new business generation. International, Western Europe and Great Britain drove further growth for the segment, primarily with strong management of the renewal book portfolio alongside new business wins. 

40 

Investment, Risk and Reinsurance (‘IRR’)  

The IRR segment uses a sophisticated approach to risk, which helps clients free up capital and manage investment complexity. This segment works closely with investors, reinsurers and insurers to manage the equation between risk and return. Blending advanced analytics with deep institutional knowledge, IRR identifies new opportunities to maximize performance. This segment provides investment consulting and discretionary management services and insurance specific services and solutions through reserves opinions, software, ratemaking, risk underwriting and reinsurance broking. 

This segment is our third largest segment and generated approximately 18% of segment revenue for the Company for the year ended December 31, 2019. With approximately 77% of the revenue for this segment split between North America and the U.K., IRR includes the following businesses and offerings: 

•  

Willis Re — Willis Re provides reinsurance industry clients with an understanding of how risk affects capital and financial performance and advises on the best ways to manage related outcomes. 

•  

Insurance Consulting and Technology — Insurance Consulting and Technology is a global business that provides advice and technology solutions to the insurance industry. Services include software and technology, risk and capital management, products and product pricing, financial and regulatory reporting, financial and capital modeling, M&A, outsourcing and business management. 

•  

Investments — Investments provides advice and discretionary management solutions to improve investment outcomes for asset owners using a broad and sophisticated framework for managing risk. 

•  

Wholesale Insurance Broking — Wholesale Insurance Broking provides specialist broking services primarily to retail and wholesale brokers. 

•  

Innovisk — Innovisk (formerly Underwriting and Capital Management) brings together our set of managing general agent underwriting activities for the purposes of accelerating their future development using data and technology. 

•  

Willis Re Securities — Willis Re Securities (formerly Willis Towers Watson Securities) provides capital markets services to companies involved in the insurance and reinsurance industries. 

•  

Max Matthiessen — Max Matthiessen is a leading advisor and broker for insurance, benefits, human resources and savings in the Nordic region. The business specializes in providing human capital and benefits administration together with providing market leading savings and insurance solutions. 

The following table sets forth IRR segment revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the components of the change in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019 from the year ended December 31, 2018. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i) Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding. 

IRR segment revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was approximately $1.6 billion. On an organic basis, all lines of business posted revenue growth. Reinsurance, Innovisk, Wholesale and Investments growth was driven by net new business growth and favorable renewal factors while Insurance Consulting and Technology revenue grew from strong technology sales. Max Matthiessen revenue increased as a result of overall growth in net commissions. 

Benefit Delivery and Administration (‘BDA’)  

The BDA segment provides primary medical and ancillary benefit exchange and outsourcing services to active employees and retirees across both the group and individual markets. A significant portion of the revenue in this segment is recurring in nature, driven by either the commissions from the policies we sell, or from long-term service contracts with our clients that typically range from three to five years. Revenue across this segment may be seasonal, driven by the magnitude and timing of client enrollment activities, which often occur during the fourth quarter, with increased membership levels typically effective January 1, after calendar year-end benefits elections. BDA includes the operations of TRANZACT, which experiences seasonally higher revenue during the fourth quarter due  

41 

primarily to the timing of the Federal Medicare Open Enrollment window. Following the acquisition on July 30, 2019, TRANZACT generated revenue of $245 million, which is included in the BDA segment revenue from its date of acquisition through the year ended December 31, 2019. 

BDA generated approximately 12% of our segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019. BDA provides services via three related offerings to customers primarily in the U.S.: 

•  

Benefits Outsourcing — This service line is focused on serving active employee groups for clients across the U.S. We use our proprietary technology to provide a broad suite of health and welfare and pension administration outsourcing services, including tools to enable benefit modeling, decision support, enrollment and benefit choice. 

•  

Individual Marketplace — This service line offers decision support processes and tools to connect consumers with insurance carriers in private individual and Medicare markets. Individual Marketplace serves both employer-based and direct-to-consumer populations through its end-to-end consumer acquisition and engagement platforms, which tightly integrate call routing technology, an efficient quoting and enrollment engine, a customer relations management system and deep links with insurance carriers. 

•  

Benefits Accounts — This service line delivers consumer-driven healthcare and reimbursement accounts, including health savings accounts, health reimbursement arrangements and other consumer-directed accounts to our benefits outsourcing, individual marketplace and employer clients. 

The following table sets forth BDA segment revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the components of the change in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019 from the year ended December 31, 2018. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i)  

Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding. 

BDA segment revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was $1.0 billion and $758 million, respectively. BDA’s organic growth was primarily led by the continued expansion of its client base and increased demand for project work in the mid-market and large-market spaces.  

Costs of Providing Services 

Total costs of providing services was approximately $7.7 billion for both the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, representing a current year increase of $6 million. See the following discussion for further details. 

Salaries and Benefits 

Salaries and benefits for the year ended December 31, 2019 were $5.2 billion, compared to $5.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, an increase of $126 million. This increase was primarily a result of higher base salary adjustments, severance costs and incentive accruals.  

Salaries and benefits, as a percentage of revenue, represented 58% and 60% for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

Other Operating Expenses 

Other operating expenses include occupancy, legal, marketing, licenses, royalties, supplies, technology, printing and telephone costs, as well as insurance, including premiums on excess insurance and losses on professional liability claims, travel by colleagues, publications, professional subscriptions and development, recruitment, other professional fees and irrecoverable value added and sales taxes. 

Other operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019 were $1.7 billion, compared to $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, an increase of $82 million, or 5%. This increase was primarily due to the addition of TRANZACT expenses and higher professional services expenses, partially offset by lower insurance and occupancy costs.  

42 

Depreciation 

Depreciation represents the expense incurred over the useful lives of our tangible fixed assets and internally-developed software. Depreciation for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $240 million, compared to $208 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, an increase of $32 million, or 15%. The year-over-year increase was primarily due to a higher depreciable base of assets resulting from additional assets placed in service during 2018.  

Amortization 

Amortization includes amortization of acquired intangible assets, including acquired internally developed software. Amortization for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $489 million, compared to $534 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, a decrease of $45 million, or 8%. Our intangible amortization is more heavily weighted to the initial years of the useful lives of the related intangibles, and therefore amortization related to intangible assets purchased prior to our acquisition of TRANZACT will continue to decrease over time. Our amortization will increase going forward as a result of the TRANZACT acquisition.  

Transaction and integration expenses 

Transaction and integration expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019 was composed of $13 million of transaction costs, primarily related to the acquisition of TRANZACT, compared to $202 million of integration costs for the year ended December 31, 2018. There were no integration costs incurred during 2019 due to the completion of all integration activities in 2018.  

Income from Operations 

Income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $1.3 billion, compared to $809 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, an increase of $520 million. This increase resulted from higher revenue of $526 million, which includes $245 million of TRANZACT revenue, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $6 million, primarily driven by higher salary and benefits costs and the addition of TRANZACT operating expenses during the current year. The increase in the current year’s operating expenses was partially offset by the absence of integration expenses of $202 million incurred in the prior year.  

Interest Expense 

Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was $234 million and $208 million, respectively. Interest expense is primarily related to interest on our senior notes and term loan. Interest expense increased by $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, which was due primarily to additional levels of indebtedness in connection with the TRANZACT acquisition and higher interest expense associated with our senior notes offerings during the third quarter of 2019.  

Other Income, Net 

Other income, net for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $227 million, compared to $250 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, a decrease of $23 million. The decrease in 2019 as compared to the prior year primarily related to decreased pension income of $46 million for the full year 2019, in comparison with the prior year, partially offset by favorable investment income activity of $16 million for the current year and a lower loss on disposal activity of $7 million.  

Provision for Income Taxes 

Provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $249 million, compared with $136 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were 18.8% and 16.0%, respectively. The tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2018 was lower primarily due to the release of a valuation allowance on certain state deferred tax assets in connection with a U.S. internal restructuring and the global mix of income. These effective tax rates are calculated using extended values from our consolidated statements of comprehensive income and are therefore more precise tax rates than can be calculated from rounded values.  

Net income attributable to Willis Towers Watson 

Net income attributable to Willis Towers Watson for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $1.0 billion, compared to $695 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, an increase of $349 million, or 50%. This increase was primarily due to organic revenue growth across all segments and the addition of TRANZACT’s operating results, partially offset by increased salary and benefits costs and higher tax expense.  

43 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Executive Summary 

Our principal sources of liquidity are funds generated by operating activities, available cash and cash equivalents and amounts available under our revolving credit facilities or new debt offerings. 

Based on our current balance sheet and cash flows, current market conditions and information available to us at this time, we believe that Willis Towers Watson has access to sufficient liquidity, which includes our undrawn revolving credit facilities, to meet our cash needs for the next twelve months, including investing in the business for growth, scheduled debt repayments and dividend payments. Additionally, we used term loan financing to complete our acquisition of TRANZACT (see Item 8., Note 11 — Debt within this filing on Form 10-K for further information regarding the term loan).  

The Company recognizes deferred tax balances related to the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries when it expects that it will recover those undistributed earnings in a taxable manner, such as through receipt of dividends or sale of the investments.  

At December 31, 2018, as a result of an international restructuring, we were considering repatriating an additional $2.1 billion, which was previously deemed indefinitely reinvested. As a result, we recorded an estimate for foreign withholding and state income tax expense of approximately $11 million at December 31, 2018. During the second quarter of 2019 we repatriated a portion of this as previously-taxed income and return of capital. Subsequent to the repatriation, U.S. Treasury Regulations were issued that would impact the U.S. taxability of the balance of the earnings associated with the international restructuring. As such, the Company changed its assertion with respect to any additional earnings from this restructuring for the foreseeable future and released approximately $8 million previously accrued for foreign withholding and state income tax expense. Of the original $2.1 billion under consideration, $1.4 billion remains permanently reinvested at December 31, 2019.  

We continue to have certain subsidiaries whose earnings have not been deemed permanently reinvested, for which we have been accruing estimates of the tax effects of such repatriation. Excluding these certain subsidiaries, we continue to assert that the historical cumulative earnings for the remainder of our subsidiaries have been reinvested indefinitely, and therefore do not provide deferred taxes on these amounts. If future events, including material changes in estimates of cash, working capital, long-term investment requirements or additional guidance relating to U.S. Tax Reform, necessitate that these earnings be distributed, an additional provision for income and foreign withholding taxes, net of credits, may be necessary. Other potential sources of cash may be through the settlement of intercompany loans or return of capital distributions in a tax-efficient manner. 

Events that could change the historical cash flow dynamics discussed above include significant changes in operating results, potential future acquisitions or divestitures, material changes in geographic sources of cash, unexpected adverse impacts from litigation or regulatory matters, or future pension funding during periods of severe downturn in the capital markets. 

During the year ended December 31, 2019, we completed an offering of $450 million aggregate principal amount of 2.950% senior notes due 2029 and $550 million aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior notes due 2049. Net proceeds of approximately $988 million were used to prepay a portion of the amount outstanding under our one-year term loan commitment and to repay borrowings under our $1.25 billion revolving credit facility. 

Assets and liabilities associated with non-U.S. entities have been translated into U.S. dollars as of December 31, 2019 at U.S. dollar rates that fluctuate compared to historical periods. As a result, cash flows derived from changes in the consolidated balance sheets include the impact of the change in foreign exchange translation rates. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

Our cash and cash equivalents at both December 31, 2019 and 2018 totaled $887 million and $1.0 billion, respectively.  

Additionally, at December 31, 2019, $1.2 billion was available to draw against our $1.25 billion revolving credit facility as compared to $1.1 billion, which was available to draw against the facility at December 31, 2018. 

Included within cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2019 and 2018 are amounts held for regulatory capital adequacy requirements, including $114 million and $90 million, respectively, held within our regulated U.K. entities at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

44 

Summarized Consolidated Cash Flows 

The following table presents the summarized consolidated cash flow information for the years ended: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i)  

As a result of the acquired TRANZACT collateralized facility (see Item 8., Note 11 — Debt within this filing on Form 10-K), cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at the end of the period included $8 million of restricted cash at December 31, 2019, which is included within prepaid and other current assets on our consolidated balance sheet. There were no restricted cash amounts held at December 31, 2018 and 2017. 

Cash Flows From Operating Activities 

Cash flows from operating activities were $1.1 billion for 2019, compared to cash flows from operating activities of $1.3 billion for 2018. The $1.1 billion net cash from operating activities for 2019 included net income of $1.1 billion, adjusted for $798 million of non-cash adjustments, mostly offset by unfavorable changes in operating assets and liabilities of $790 million. The $798 million of non-cash adjustments primarily includes depreciation, amortization and non-cash lease expense. The $207 million decrease in cash from operations in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily resulted from unfavorable working capital changes, particularly in accounts receivable, and the negative cash flows of TRANZACT. 

The $1.3 billion net cash from operating activities for 2018 included net income of $715 million, adjusted for $570 million of non-cash adjustments, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $3 million. The $570 million non-cash adjustments primarily included depreciation, amortization, and the benefit from deferred income taxes. 

Cash Flows Used In Investing Activities 

Cash flows used in investing activities for 2019 and 2018 were $1.6 billion and $341 million, respectively, with 2019 being primarily driven by the acquisition of TRANZACT during the third quarter of 2019, as well as capital expenditures and capitalized software additions in both years. 

Cash Flows From/(Used In) Financing Activities 

Cash flows from financing activities for 2019 were $397 million. The most significant financing activities included net debt-related proceeds of $958 million, which were partially offset by dividend payments of $329 million and share repurchases of $150 million. 

Cash flows used in financing activities for 2018 were $903 million. The most significant financing activities included share repurchases of $602 million and dividend payments of $306 million, which were partially offset by net borrowings of $66 million. 

45 

Indebtedness 

Total debt, total equity, and the capitalization ratio at December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

At December 31, 2019, our mandatory debt repayments over the next twelve months include $295 million outstanding on our one-year unsecured term loan, and $24 million outstanding on our collateralized facility assumed as part of our acquisition of TRANZACT. 

At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we were in compliance with all financial covenants. 

Fiduciary Funds 

As an intermediary, we hold funds, generally in a fiduciary capacity, for the account of third parties, typically as the result of premiums received from clients that are in transit to insurers and claims due to clients that are in transit from insurers. We report premiums, which are held on account of, or due from, clients as assets with a corresponding liability due to the insurers. Claims held by, or due to, us which are due to clients are also shown as both Fiduciary assets and Fiduciary liabilities on our balance sheets. 

Fiduciary funds are generally required to be kept in regulated bank accounts subject to guidelines which emphasize capital preservation and liquidity; such funds are not available to service the Company’s debt or for other corporate purposes. Notwithstanding the legal relationships with clients and insurers, the Company is entitled to retain investment income earned on fiduciary funds in accordance with industry custom and practice and, in some cases, as supported by agreements with insureds. 

At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had fiduciary funds of $3.4 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively. 

Share Repurchase Program 

The Company is authorized to repurchase shares, by way of redemption, and will consider whether to do so from time to time, based on many factors, including market conditions. There are no expiration dates for our repurchase plans or programs. 

On February 23, 2018, the board of directors approved an increase to the existing share repurchase program of $400 million to a total authorization of $1.0 billion. See Part II, Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding the Company’s share repurchase program.  

At December 31, 2019, approximately $249 million remained on the current repurchase authority. The maximum number of shares that could be repurchased based on the closing price of our ordinary shares on December 31, 2019 of $201.94 was 1,233,271. 

The following table presents specified information about the Company’s repurchases of ordinary shares for the year ended December 31, 2019: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

On February 26, 2020, the board of directors approved a $251 million increase to the existing share repurchase program, increasing the total remaining authorization to $500 million. 

46 

Capital Commitments 

The Company has no material commitments for capital expenditures. Our capital expenditures for fixed assets and software for internal use were $246 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Expected capital expenditures for fixed assets and software for internal use are approximately $250 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. We expect cash from operations to adequately provide for these cash needs. 

Dividends 

Total cash dividends of $329 million were paid during the year ended December 31, 2019. In February 2020, the board of directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.68 per share ($2.72 per share annualized rate), which will be paid on or about April 15, 2020 to shareholders of record as of March 31, 2020. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations 

Off-Balance Sheet Transactions 

Apart from commitments, guarantees and contingencies, as disclosed herein and Note 15 — Commitments and Contingencies located within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference, as of December 31, 2019, the Company had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 

Contractual Obligations 

The Company’s material contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Debt Obligations and Facilities — The Company’s material debt and related interest obligations at December 31, 2019 are shown in the above table. The Company’s mandatory debt repayments over the next twelve months include $295 million outstanding on its one-year unsecured term loan, and $24 million outstanding on its collateralized facility assumed as part of the acquisition of TRANZACT. The Company also has the right, at its option, to prepay indebtedness under the credit facility without further penalty and to redeem the senior notes by paying a ‘make-whole’ premium as provided under the applicable debt instrument. 

Leases — We lease office space and furniture, primarily under operating lease agreements, with terms typically ranging from three to ten years. See further discussion in Item 8, Note 14 — Leases in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Pension Contributions — The Company has agreed with the Trustees of certain plans in the U.K. to contribute deficit funding and minimum ongoing accrual of benefits funding and has presented those obligations in the table above. These obligations exclude employee contributions and any potential funding level contributions, which are dependent on future funding level assessments. There are no contractual obligations for our U.S. pension plans. Our total expected contributions to all qualified pension plans, including amounts presented above, for the year ending December 31, 2020 are projected to be $167 million. Additionally, the Company expects to pay $43 million in benefits directly to participants for the year ended 2020. 

Acquisition Liabilities and Other Contractual Obligations — Acquisition liabilities include contingent consideration estimates, which may change based on actual results that may differ from management’s current expectations. Other contractual obligations include put  

47 

option obligations and investment fund capital call obligations, the timing of which are included at the earliest point they may fall due. Information regarding these liabilities and their impact on the financial statements is set forth in Item 8, Note 15 — Commitments and Contingencies in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Claims, Lawsuits and Other Proceedings, including Stanford Financial Group Litigation — Information regarding claims, lawsuits and other proceedings, including the Stanford Financial Group litigation, and their impact on the consolidated financial statements is set forth in Item 8, Note 15 — Commitments and Contingencies in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Uncertain Tax Positions — The table above does not include liabilities for uncertain tax positions under ASC 740, Income Taxes of $49 million, which excludes interest and penalties. The settlement period cannot be reasonably estimated since it depends on the timing and possible outcomes of tax examinations with various tax authorities. 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures 

In order to assist readers of our consolidated financial statements in understanding the core operating results that Willis Towers Watson’s management uses to evaluate the business and for financial planning purposes, we present the following non-GAAP measures and their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company believes that these measures are relevant and provide useful information widely used by analysts, investors and other interested parties in our industry to provide a baseline for evaluating and comparing our operating performance, and in the case of free cash flow, our liquidity results. 

Within the measures referred to as ‘adjusted’, we adjust for significant items which will not be settled in cash, or which we believe to be items that are not core to our current or future operations. These items include the following: 

•  

Transaction and integration expenses - Management believes it is appropriate to adjust for transaction and integration expenses when they relate to a specific significant program with a defined set of activities and costs that are not expected to continue beyond a defined period of time, or significant acquisition-related transaction expenses. We believe the adjustment is necessary to present how the Company is performing, both now and in the future when the incurrence of these costs will have concluded. 

•  

Gains and losses on disposals of operations - Adjustment to remove the gain or loss resulting from disposed operations. 

•  

Pension settlement and curtailment gains and losses - Adjustment to remove significant pension settlement and curtailment gains and losses to better present how the Company is performing. 

•  

Provisions for significant litigation - We will include provisions for litigation matters which we believe are not representative of our core business operations. 

•  

Tax effects of internal reorganizations - Relates to the U.S. income tax expense resulting from the completion of internal reorganizations of the ownership of certain businesses that reduced the investments held by our U.S.-controlled subsidiaries. 

These non-GAAP measures are not defined in the same manner by all companies and may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies. Non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the information contained within our consolidated financial statements. 

48 

Constant Currency Change and Organic Change 

We evaluate our revenue on an as reported (U.S. GAAP), constant currency and organic basis. We believe presenting constant currency and organic information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our comparable results, consistent with how we evaluate our performance internally. 

•  

Constant Currency Change - Represents the year-over-year change in revenue excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. To calculate this impact, the prior year local currency results are first translated using the current year monthly average exchange rates. The change is calculated by comparing the prior year revenue, translated at the current year monthly average exchange rates, to the current year as reported revenue, for the same period. We believe constant currency measures provide useful information to investors because they provide transparency to performance by excluding the effects that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations have on period-over-period comparability given volatility in foreign currency exchange markets. 

•  

Organic Change - Excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as described above and the period-over-period impact of acquisitions and divestitures on current-year revenue. We believe that excluding transaction-related items from our U.S. GAAP financial measures provides useful supplemental information to our investors, and it is important in illustrating what our core operating results would have been had we not included these transaction-related items, since the nature, size and number of these transaction-related items can vary from period to period. 

The constant currency and organic change results, and a reconciliation from the reported results for consolidated revenue, are included in the ‘Consolidated Revenue’ section within this Form 10-K. These measures are also reported by segment in the ‘Segment Revenue’ section within this Form 10-K. 

A reconciliation of the reported change to the constant currency and organic change for the year ended December 31, 2019 from the year ended December 31, 2018 is as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i)  

Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding. 

Adjusting for the impacts of foreign currency and acquisitions and disposals in the calculation of our organic activity, our revenue grew by 5% for the year ended December 31, 2019. This organic increase in revenue was driven by strong performances in all segments. 

Adjusted Operating Income/Margin 

We consider adjusted operating income/margin to be important financial measures, which are used to internally evaluate and assess our core operations and to benchmark our operating results against our competitors. 

Adjusted operating income is defined as income from operations adjusted for amortization, transaction and integration expenses and non-recurring items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results. Adjusted operating income margin is calculated by dividing adjusted operating income by revenue.  

49 

Reconciliations of income from operations to adjusted operating income for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Adjusted operating income increased for the year ended December 31, 2019 to $1.8 billion, from $1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to organic revenue growth across all segments. Additionally, on a year-to-date basis, salaries and benefits expense as a percentage of revenue decreased from 60% to 58%. 

Adjusted EBITDA/Margin 

We consider adjusted EBITDA/margin to be important financial measures, which are used to internally evaluate and assess our core operations, to benchmark our operating results against our competitors and to evaluate and measure our performance-based compensation plans. 

Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income adjusted for provision for income taxes, interest expense, depreciation and amortization, transaction and integration expenses, (gain)/loss on disposal of operations and non-recurring items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results. Adjusted EBITDA margin is calculated by dividing adjusted EBITDA by revenue. 

Reconciliations of net income to adjusted EBITDA for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $2.3 billion, compared to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. This increase was primarily due to organic revenue growth across all segments and the addition of TRANZACT’s operating results, partially offset by higher base salary adjustments, severance costs and incentive accruals and decreased pension income. 

Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share 

Adjusted net income is defined as net income attributable to Willis Towers Watson adjusted for amortization, transaction and integration expenses, (gain)/loss on disposal of operations and non-recurring items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results, the related tax effect of those adjustments and the tax effects of internal reorganizations. This measure is used solely for the purpose of calculating adjusted diluted earnings per share. 

50 

Adjusted diluted earnings per share is defined as adjusted net income divided by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock, diluted. Adjusted diluted earnings per share is used to internally evaluate and assess our core operations and to benchmark our operating results against our competitors. 

Reconciliations of net income attributable to Willis Towers Watson to adjusted diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i)  

The tax effect was calculated using an effective tax rate for each item. 

(ii)  

Per share values and totals may differ due to rounding. 

Our adjusted diluted earnings per share increased for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily due to organic revenue growth across all segments and the addition of TRANZACT’s operating results, partially offset by higher base salary adjustments, severance costs and incentive accruals and decreased pension income. 

Adjusted Income Before Taxes and Adjusted Income Taxes/Tax Rate 

Adjusted income before taxes is defined as income from operations before income taxes adjusted for amortization, transaction and integration expenses, (gain)/loss on disposal of operations and non-recurring items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results. Adjusted income before taxes is used solely for the purpose of calculating the adjusted income tax rate. 

Adjusted income taxes/tax rate is defined as the provision for income taxes adjusted for taxes on certain items of amortization, transaction and integration expenses, (gain)/loss on disposal of operations, the tax effects of internal reorganizations and non-recurring items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results, divided by adjusted income before taxes. Adjusted income taxes is used solely for the purpose of calculating the adjusted income tax rate. 

Management believes that the adjusted income tax rate presents a rate that is more closely aligned to the rate that we would incur if not for the reduction of pre-tax income for the adjusted items and the tax effects of our internal reorganizations, which are not core to our current and future operations. 

51 

Reconciliations of income from operations before income taxes to adjusted income before taxes and provision for/(benefit from) income taxes to adjusted income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i)  

The tax effect was calculated using an effective tax rate for each item. 

Our U.S. GAAP tax rates were 18.8% and 16.0% for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Our adjusted income tax rates were 20.3% and 19.5% for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The U.S. GAAP tax rate and the adjusted income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2018 were lower primarily due to the release of a valuation allowance on certain state deferred tax assets in connection with a U.S. internal restructuring and the global mix of income in 2018. 

Free Cash Flow 

Free cash flow is defined as cash flows from operating activities less cash used to purchase fixed assets and software for internal use. Free cash flow is a liquidity measure and is not meant to represent residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. 

Management believes that free cash flow presents the core operating performance and cash generating capabilities of our business operations. 

Reconciliations of cash flows from operating activities to free cash flow for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The decrease in free cash flows in 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily resulted from unfavorable working capital changes, particularly in accounts receivable, and the negative cash flows of TRANZACT. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

These consolidated financial statements conform to U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Our estimates, judgments and assumptions are continually evaluated based on available information and experience. Because of the use of estimates inherent in the financial reporting process, actual results could differ from those estimates. The areas that we believe include critical accounting policies are revenue recognition, costs to fulfill broking contracts, valuation of billed and unbilled receivables from clients, discretionary  

52 

compensation, income taxes, commitments, contingencies and accrued liabilities, pension assumptions, and goodwill and intangible assets. The critical accounting policies discussed below involve making difficult, subjective or complex accounting estimates that could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These critical accounting policies require us to make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate or assumption. Different estimates that we could have used, or changes in estimates that are reasonably likely to occur, may have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 

Revenue Recognition (effective January 1, 2018) 

We use significant estimates related to revenue recognition most commonly during our estimation of the transaction prices or where we recognize revenue over time on a proportional performance basis. A brief description of these policies and estimates is included below: 

Estimation of transaction prices — This process occurs most frequently in certain broking transactions. In situations in which our fees are not fixed but are variable, we must estimate the likely commission per policy, taking into account the likelihood of cancellation before the end of the policy. For Medicare broking, Affinity arrangements and proportional treaty reinsurance broking, the commissions to which we will be entitled can vary based on the underlying individual insurance policies that are placed. For Medicare broking and proportional treaty reinsurance in particular, we base the estimates of transaction prices on supportable evidence from an analysis of past transactions, and only include amounts that are probable of being received or not refunded (referred to as applying ‘constraint’ under ASC 606). In our direct-to-consumer Medicare broking arrangements, the estimate of the total renewal commissions that will be received over the lifetime of the policy requires significant judgment, and will vary based on product type, estimated commission rates, the expected lives of the respective policies and other factors. The Company has applied an actuarial model to account for these uncertainties, which is updated periodically based on actual experience. Each of these processes result in us estimating a transaction price that may be significantly lower than the ultimate amount of commissions we may collect. The transaction price is then adjusted over time as we receive confirmation of our remuneration through receipt of commissions, or as other information becomes available.  

Proportional performance basis over time recognition — Where we recognize revenue on a proportional performance basis, primarily in our consulting and outsourced administration arrangements, the amount we recognize is affected by a number of factors that can change the estimated amount of work required to complete the project, such as the staffing on the engagement and/or the level of client participation. Our periodic engagement evaluations require us to make judgments and estimates regarding the overall profitability and stages of project completion that, in turn, affect how we recognize revenue. We recognize a loss on an engagement when estimated revenue to be received for that engagement is less than the total estimated costs associated with the engagement. Losses are recognized in the period in which the loss becomes probable and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. 

Costs to Fulfill Broking Contracts (effective January 1, 2018) 

For our broking business, the Company must estimate the fulfillment costs incurred during the pre-placement of the broking contracts. These judgments include: 

•  

which activities in the pre-placement process should be eligible for capitalization; 

•  

the amount of time and effort expended on those pre-placement activities; 

•  

the amount of payroll and related costs eligible for capitalization; and, 

•  

the monthly or quarterly timing of underlying insurance and reinsurance policy inception dates. 

Valuation of Billed and Unbilled Receivables from Clients 

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts to reflect estimated losses resulting from a client’s failure to pay for the services after the services have been rendered, which are recorded in other operating expenses. We also maintain allowances related to our unbilled receivables for such items as expected realization or client disputes, the related provision for which is recorded as a reduction to revenue. Our allowance policy is based on the aging of the billed and unbilled client receivables and has been developed based on our write-off history. Facts and circumstances such as the average length of time the receivables are past due, general market conditions, current economic trends and our clients’ ability to pay may cause fluctuations in our valuation of billed and unbilled receivables. 

Discretionary Compensation 

Our compensation program includes a discretionary bonus that is determined by management and has historically been paid once per fiscal year after our annual operating results are finalized. 

53 

An estimated annual bonus amount is initially developed at the beginning of each fiscal year in conjunction with our budgeting process. Estimated annual operating performance is reviewed quarterly and the discretionary annual bonus amount is then adjusted, if necessary, by management to reflect changes in the forecast of pre-bonus profitability for the year. 

Income Taxes 

The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for the estimated future tax consequences of events attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating and capital loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of changes in tax rates is recognized in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which the change is enacted. Deferred tax assets are reduced through the establishment of a valuation allowance at such time as, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company adjusts valuation allowances to measure deferred tax assets at the amounts considered realizable in future periods when the Company’s facts and assumptions change. In making such determinations, the Company considers all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial operating results. We place more reliance on evidence that is objectively verifiable. 

Commitments, Contingencies and Accrued Liabilities 

We have established provisions against various actual and potential claims, lawsuits and other proceedings relating principally to alleged errors and omissions in connection with the placement of insurance and reinsurance and the provision of consulting services in the ordinary course of business. Such provisions cover claims that have been reported but not paid and also claims that have been incurred but not reported. These provisions are established based on actuarial estimates together with individual case reviews and are believed to be adequate in the light of current information and legal advice. In certain cases, where a range of loss exists, we accrue the minimum amount in the range if no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount. 

See Note 15 — Commitments and Contingencies in Item 8 within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Pension Assumptions 

We maintain defined benefit pension plans for employees in several countries, with the most significant defined benefit plans offered in the U.S. and U.K. Our disclosures in Note 13 — Retirement Benefits contain additional information about our other less significant but material retirement plans. Within our critical accounting policy discussion, we have excluded analysis for plans outside of those noted in the description below, as any variance of recorded information based on management’s estimates would be immaterial. 

Descriptions of our U.S. and U.K. plans, which comprise 90% of our projected benefit obligations and 93% of our plan assets, are below: 

United States 

Legacy Willis – This plan was frozen in 2009. Approximately one-quarter of the Legacy Willis employees in the United States have a frozen accrued benefit under this plan. 

Willis Towers Watson Plan – Substantially all U.S. employees are eligible to participate in this plan. Benefits are provided under a stable value pension plan design. The original stable value design came into effect on January 1, 2012. Existing plan participants prior to July 1, 2017 earn benefits without having to make employee contributions, and all newly eligible employees after that date are required to contribute 2% of pay on an after-tax basis to participate in the plan. 

United Kingdom 

Legacy Willis – This plan covers approximately one-third of the Legacy Willis employees in the United Kingdom. The plan is now closed to new entrants. New employees in the United Kingdom are offered the opportunity to join a defined contribution plan. 

Legacy Towers Watson – Benefit accruals earned under the Legacy Watson Wyatt defined benefit plan (predominantly pension benefits) ceased on February 28, 2015, although benefits earned prior to January 1, 2008 retain a link to salary until the employee leaves the Company. Benefit accruals earned under the legacy Towers Perrin defined benefit plan (predominantly lump sum benefits) were frozen on March 31, 2008. All participants now accrue defined contribution benefits. 

54 

Legacy Miller – The plan provides retirement benefits based on members’ salaries at the point at which they ceased to accrue benefits under the scheme. 

The determination of the Company’s obligations and annual expense under the plans is based on a number of assumptions that, given the longevity of the plans, are long-term in focus. A change in one or a combination of these assumptions could have a material impact on our projected benefit obligation. However, certain of these changes, such as changes in the discount rates and other actuarial assumptions, are not recognized immediately in net income, but are instead recorded in other comprehensive income. The accumulated gains and losses not yet recognized in net income are amortized into net income as a component of the net periodic benefit cost/(income) over the average remaining service period or average remaining life expectancy, as appropriate, of the plan’s participants to the extent that the net gains or losses as of the beginning of the year exceed 10% of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or the projected benefit obligation. 

Willis Towers Watson considers several factors prior to the start of each fiscal year when determining the appropriate annual assumptions, including economic forecasts, relevant benchmarks, historical trends, portfolio composition and peer company comparisons. These assumptions, used to determine our pension liabilities and pension expense, are reviewed annually by senior management and changed when appropriate. A discount rate will be changed annually if underlying rates have moved, whereas an expected long-term return on assets will be changed less frequently as longer-term trends in asset returns emerge or long-term target asset allocations are revised. To calculate the discount rate, we use the granular approach to determining service cost and interest cost. The expected rate of return assumptions for all plans are supported by an analysis of the weighted-average yield expected to be achieved with the anticipated makeup of investments. Other material assumptions include rates of participant mortality, and the expected long-term rates of compensation and pension increases. 

Funding is based on actuarially determined contributions and is limited to amounts that are currently deductible for tax purposes, or as agreed to with the plan trustees for the U.K. plans. Since funding calculations are based on different measurements than those used for accounting purposes, pension contributions are not equal to net periodic benefit cost. 

We recorded a combined $147 million net periodic benefit income for our U.S. and U.K. plans for the year ended December 31, 2019. For the U.S. and U.K. plans, the following table presents our estimated net periodic benefit income for 2020 and the impact to both plans of a 0.25% increase and decrease to both the expected return on assets (‘EROA’) and the discount rate assumptions; and the projected benefit obligations as of December 31, 2019 and the impact of a 0.25% increase and decrease to the discount rates: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Economic factors and conditions often affect multiple assumptions simultaneously and the effects of changes in key assumptions are not necessarily linear. 

Goodwill and Intangible Assets — Impairment Review 

In applying the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations, amounts assigned to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired were based on estimated fair values as of the date of acquisition, with the remainder recorded as goodwill. Intangible assets are initially valued at fair value using generally accepted valuation methods appropriate for the type of intangible asset. Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment if indicators of impairment arise. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment annually as of October 1, and whenever indicators of impairment arise. The fair value of the intangible assets is compared with their carrying value and an impairment loss would be recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as of October 1, and whenever indicators of impairment arise. 

Goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level, and the Company had nine reporting units as of October 1, 2019. 

During fiscal year 2019, the Company performed Step 1 of the two-step impairment test for all reporting units. Each of the reporting units' estimated fair values were in excess of their carrying values. To perform the test, we used valuation techniques to estimate the  

55 

fair value of a reporting unit that are under the income and/or market approaches of valuation methods. Under the discounted cash flow method, an income approach, the business enterprise value is determined by discounting to present value the terminal value which is calculated using debt-free after-tax cash flows for a finite period of years. Key estimates in this approach were internal financial projection estimates prepared by management, assessment of business risk, and expected rates of return on capital. The guideline company method, a market approach, develops valuation multiples by comparing our reporting units to similar publicly-traded companies. Key estimates and determination of valuation multiples rely on the selection of similar companies, obtaining forecast revenue and EBITDA estimates for the similar companies and selection of valuation multiples as they apply to the reporting unit characteristics. Under the similar transactions method, a market approach, actual transaction prices and operating data from companies deemed reasonably similar to the reporting units are used to develop valuation multiples as an indication of how much a knowledgeable investor in the marketplace would be willing to pay for the business units. 

If the Company was required to perform Step 2 for any of the reporting units used in Step 1, we would determine the implied fair value of all of the assets and liabilities of that reporting unit (including any recognized or unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. Then the implied fair value of goodwill would be compared to the carrying amount of that goodwill to determine if goodwill is impaired. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we did not record any impairment losses of goodwill or intangibles. 

56 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK