PART I

Item 1. Business 

Our Company

Wynn Resorts, Limited ("Wynn Resorts," or together with its subsidiaries, "we" or the "Company") is a preeminent designer, developer, and operator of integrated resorts featuring luxury hotel rooms, high-end retail space, an array of dining and entertainment options, meeting and convention facilities, and gaming, all supported by an unparalleled focus on our guests, our people, and our community. We believe that our extensive design and operational experience across numerous gaming jurisdictions provides us with a distinct advantage over other gaming enterprises. 

Through our approximately 72% ownership of Wynn Macau, Limited ("WML"), we operate two integrated resorts in the Macau Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China ("Macau"), Wynn Palace and Wynn Macau (collectively, our "Macau Operations"). In Las Vegas, Nevada, we operate and, with the exception of certain retail space, own 100% of Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas, which we also refer to as our Las Vegas Operations. On June 23, 2019, we opened Encore Boston Harbor, an integrated resort in Everett, Massachusetts. 

Wynn Resorts was incorporated in Nevada in 2002. Wynn Resorts files annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments of such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Any document Wynn Resorts files may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. Information related to the operation of the SEC's public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, through our corporate website at www.wynnresorts.com, Wynn Resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party SEC filing website which posts these filings as soon as reasonably practicable, where they can be reviewed without charge. The information found on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.

Our Strategy 

We conceptualize, design, build, and operate our resorts to create unforgettable customer experiences across a diverse set of gaming and non-gaming amenities that attract a wide range of customer segments and generate strong financial results. 

Central to our strategy is the construction of, and regular reinvestment in, world-class integrated resorts. These activities are led by our in-house design, development, and construction subsidiary and its senior management team, which has significant experience across all major design and construction disciplines. In addition, we believe superior customer service is the best marketing strategy to attract customers and drive repeat visitation to our resorts. Human resources and staff training are essential to ensuring our employees are prepared to provide the luxury service that our guests expect. We have been successful in attracting a wide range of premium guests both domestically and internationally. We leverage our international marketing team across branch offices located in Hong Kong SAR, Singapore, Japan, Taiwan, and Canada to connect with and build relationships with our international customers. We continually evaluate our offerings and service levels, and as a result, have made and expect to continue to make enhancements and refinements to our resorts.

We plan to continue to seek out new opportunities to develop and operate world-class integrated resorts and related businesses around the world. Overall, we believe Wynn Resorts has a demonstrated track record of developing and operating integrated resorts that stimulate local and regional economic activity, by attracting a wide range of customers (including high-net-worth international tourists), driving international tourism, raising average hotel room rates in the region, extending the average length of stay per visitor, complementing existing convention and meeting business with five-star accommodations and appropriately scaled meeting amenities, elevating service levels with the execution of five-star customer service, and stimulating city-wide investment and employment.

3 
Our Values

Wynn Resorts thrives in the luxury hospitality industry because of our employees, who exhibit our values at every level within the Company. Our values are embodied by the following concepts:

•Service-Driven. We foster a culture of respect, gratitude and meticulous attention to detail that makes service to guests our life’s work.

•Excellence. Our singular focus on being the best celebrates the inherent connection between employee and guest, company and community.

•Artistry. We provide a collection of guest experiences that prize artistry and championship craftsmanship, resulting in Wynn Resorts being the highest ranked hotel company in the world.

•Progressive. Our commitment to innovation enables us to continue evolving what it means to create and operate world-class resort destinations.

Our Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability

We are committed to our people, our communities, and our planet. Executing on our commitment to corporate social responsibility and sustainability includes:

•Creating a five-star workplace.

•Fostering a diverse and inclusive workforce, and investing in our people. 

•Furthering social impact initiatives in our communities.

•Minimizing the harm and maximizing the benefit that we have on our community and environment by utilizing and sourcing energy and materials responsibly. 

•Elevating our corporate governance practices to ensure they appropriately support the long-term interests of our stakeholders.

In North America, we have taken a leading role in the hospitality industry's transition to clean and sustainable sources of energy. Our investments in alternative energy, including on-site solar arrays and notably, a 160-acre solar facility in Northern Nevada, have earned us an invitation to join the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Green Power Partnership and a top ranking among Fortune 500 companies that voluntarily use green power to reduce air pollution and other environmental impacts associated with electricity use. We encourage our employees to avail themselves of numerous leadership and development opportunities and use our resources to assist in the education and development of the next generation of employees and leaders. We are also fully committed to supporting our communities in the Las Vegas and Boston areas, through our corporate giving program and through the Wynn Employee Foundation, which fosters charitable giving and volunteerism among Wynn employees and community partners.

In Macau and across the Greater Bay Area, which is the region encompassing Macau, Hong Kong, and southern Guangdong Province, we strive to drive reinvestment in our community, encourage volunteerism, and promote responsible gaming through our Wynn Care program. Since launching this program, we have centralized our community-focused initiatives under one umbrella and meaningfully increased our involvement in various volunteer activities and community events in Macau, the Greater Bay Area, and beyond. We are also fully committed to the sustainable development of Macau and endeavor to provide our guests with a premium experience while remaining environmentally conscious by monitoring and reducing inefficient consumption and embracing technologies that help us to responsibly use our resources. In addition, we provide our employees in Macau with numerous professional development and training opportunities to elevate core and leadership skills. 

4 
Executing on Our Strategy

Reflecting our strategic focus, our values, and our commitment to delivering world-class, five-star service within luxury integrated resorts, the Company has received the following recognition:

•Wynn Las Vegas and Encore have each earned Five-Star status on the 2020 Forbes Travel Guide ("FTG") Star Rating list and are now the largest and second largest FTG Five-Star resorts in the world respectively. Wynn Palace, originally earning FTG Five-Star status in 2018, is the third largest.

•Collectively, Wynn Resorts earned more FTG Five-Star awards than any other independent hotel company in the world in 2020.

•Wynn Palace garnered seven individual FTG Five-Star awards in 2020. 

•Wynn Macau continues to be the only resort in the world with eight individual FTG Five-Star awards in 2020. 

•Wynn Macau and Wynn Palace are the most decorated integrated resort brands in Asia with fifteen FTG Five-Star awards combined. 

•Wynn Las Vegas and Encore added two new 2020 FTG Five-Star awards and now collectively hold seven, the most of any resorts in North America.

•Wynn Resorts was once again honored to be included on FORTUNE Magazine's 2020 World's Most Admired Companies list in the hotel, casino, and resort category and ranked first overall in the category of Quality of Products/ Services among all international hotel companies.

•Wynn Las Vegas was certified as the only casino resort in Las Vegas as a 'Great Workplace' by the analysts at Great Place to Work® in 2019. 

•Wynn Las Vegas has received Four Green Globes, the highest certification for energy-efficient and sustainable buildings from the Green Building Initiative.

•Encore Boston Harbor has been certified LEED Platinum, the U.S. Green Building Council's highest level of certification.

Our Resorts

We present the operating results of our four resorts in the following segments: Wynn Palace, Wynn Macau, Las Vegas Operations, and Encore Boston Harbor. We may experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month, including from such factors as the timing of major conventions and holidays; however, we do not believe that our business is materially impacted by seasonality. 

Wynn Palace

We opened Wynn Palace in August 2016, on Macau's Cotai Strip, conveniently located minutes from both Macau International Airport and the Macau Taipa Ferry Terminal and directly adjacent to a stop serviced by Macau's light rail system, which recently commenced operations in Cotai. The property features approximately 424,000 square feet of casino space with 323 table games and 1,011 slot machines, as well as private gaming salons and sky casinos. Wynn Palace also features a luxury hotel tower with a total of 1,706 guest rooms, suites, and villas, offering a health club, spa, salon, and pool. In addition, Wynn Palace offers 14 food and beverage outlets, approximately 106,000 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail space, and approximately 37,000 square feet of meeting and convention space. The property's signature public attractions and entertainment offerings include a performance lake, a gondola ride offering convenient street-level access, and an exceptional display of Western and Asian art.

We are in the preliminary planning and design stages of developing the Crystal Pavilion at Wynn Palace. We expect that the Crystal Pavilion will become a unique world-class cultural destination, incorporating art, theater and interactive installations, expansive food and beverage offerings, additional hotel rooms, and several signature entertainment features. We expect construction of the initial phase of the Crystal Pavilion will begin in late 2021.

5 
Wynn Macau

We opened Wynn Macau in September 2006, and Encore, an expansion of Wynn Macau, in April 2010. Located in the heart of downtown Macau, the property features approximately 252,000 square feet of casino space with 322 table games and 838 slot machines, as well as private gaming salons, sky casinos, and a poker room. Wynn Macau also features two luxury hotel towers with a total of 1,010 guest rooms and suites, offering two health clubs, two spas, a salon and a pool. In addition, Wynn Macau offers 12 food and beverage outlets, approximately 59,000 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail space, and approximately 31,000 square feet of meeting and convention space. Wynn Macau's signature attractions include a rotunda show featuring a Chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling along with gold "tree of prosperity" and "dragon of fortune" features.

In November 2019, we opened the first phase of our Lakeside Casino expansion at Wynn Macau which features 44 mass market table games and a refurbished high-limit slot area. We expect to open the second phase, which will include two new restaurants and approximately 7,000 square feet of additional retail space, in the first half of 2020.

Las Vegas Operations

We opened Wynn Las Vegas in April 2005 and Encore, an expansion of Wynn Las Vegas, in December 2008. Wynn Las Vegas is located at the intersection of the Las Vegas Strip and Sands Avenue, and occupies approximately 215 acres of land fronting the Las Vegas Strip. The property features approximately 194,000 square feet of casino space with 232 table games and 1,756 slot machines, as well as private gaming salons, a sky casino, a poker room, and a race and sports book. Wynn Las Vegas also features two luxury hotel towers with a total of 4,748 guest rooms, suites, and villas, which offers swimming pools, private cabanas, two full service spas and salons, and a wedding chapel. In addition, Wynn Las Vegas offers 33 food and beverage outlets, approximately 160,000 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail space, and approximately 507,000 square feet of meeting and convention space (including the 217,000 square foot Meeting and Convention Expansion that opened in February 2020, as discussed below). Our nightlife and entertainment offerings at Wynn Las Vegas include two nightclubs and a beach club, and a specially designed theater presenting "Le Rêve—The Dream," a water-based theatrical production, and a theater presenting entertainment productions and various headliner entertainment acts. In October 2019, we reopened the newly reconfigured Wynn Las Vegas golf course, which had been closed since 2017.

In February 2020, we opened our meeting and convention expansion at Wynn Las Vegas (the "Meeting and Convention Expansion"). The space features approximately 217,000 square feet of incremental state-of-the-art meeting and convention space (430,000 square feet of gross space), which has nearly doubled our group footprint in Las Vegas. We estimate the total project budget, including the redesigned golf course that reopened in October 2019, to be approximately $425 million. As of December 31, 2019, we have incurred $351.3 million in total project costs.

Encore Boston Harbor

On June 23, 2019, the Company opened Encore Boston Harbor, an integrated resort in Everett, Massachusetts, adjacent to Boston along the Mystic River. The property features approximately 210,000 square feet of casino space with 161 table games and 2,833 slot machines, private and high-limit gaming areas, and a poker room. Encore Boston Harbor also features a luxury hotel tower with a total of 671 guest rooms and suites, which offers a spa and salon. In addition, Encore Boston Harbor offers 16 food and beverage outlets and a nightclub, approximately 8,000 square feet of retail space, and approximately 71,000 square feet of meeting and convention space. Public attractions include a waterfront park, floral displays, and water shuttle service to downtown Boston. 

6 
Market and Competition

The casino resort industry is highly competitive. We compete with other high-quality resorts located near our properties on the basis of the range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, themes and size, among other factors. We seek to differentiate our integrated resorts by delivering superior design and customer service. 

Macau

Macau, located in the Greater Bay Area, is governed as a special administrative region of China and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of Hong Kong. The journey between Macau and Hong Kong takes approximately 15 minutes by helicopter, 30 minutes by road since the opening of the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau Bridge in October 2018 and one hour by jetfoil ferry. Macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 50 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland China and two neighboring islands, Taipa and Coloane, between which the Cotai area is located. In 2002, the government of Macau ended a 40-year monopoly on the conduct of gaming operations by conducting a competitive process that resulted in the issuance of gaming concessions to three concessionaires (including Wynn Resorts (Macau) S.A., ("Wynn Macau SA")) who in turn were permitted, subject to the approval of the government of Macau, to each grant one subconcession, resulting in a total of six gaming concessionaires and subconcessionaires. In addition to Wynn Macau SA, each of Sociedade de Jogos de Macau ("SJM") and Galaxy Entertainment Group Limited ("Galaxy") are primary concessionaires with Sands China Ltd. ("Sands"), Melco International Development Limited ("Melco") and MGM China Holdings Limited ("MGM China") operating under subconcessions. There is no limit to the number of casinos each concessionaire or subconcessionaire is permitted to operate, but each facility is subject to government approval. Currently, there are 41 casinos operating in Macau.

We believe that the Macau region hosts one of the world's largest concentrations of potential gaming and tourism customers. Since the introduction of new casinos starting in 2004, the Macau market has experienced a significant increase in annual gaming revenue and has become the largest gaming market in the world. According to Macau Statistical Information, annual gaming revenues have grown from $2.9 billion in 2002 to $36.5 billion in 2019. In addition, we believe that Macau's stated goal of becoming a world-class tourism destination will drive additional visitation to the market and create future opportunities for us to invest and grow. 

Macau's gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists. Gaming customers traveling to Macau typically come from nearby destinations in Asia. According to the Macau Statistics and Census Service Monthly Bulletin of Statistics, over 90% of the visitors to Macau in 2019 came from mainland China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. Travel to Macau by citizens of mainland China requires a visa. 

According to 2019 government statistics, Macau tourist arrivals increased 10.1%, to 39.4 million, from 35.8 million in 2018. Annual gaming revenues decreased to $36.5 billion in 2019, from $37.5 billion in 2018.

The Macau market has experienced tremendous growth in capacity since the opening of Wynn Macau in 2006. As of December 31, 2019, there were 38,300 hotel rooms, 6,739 table games and 17,009 slot machines in Macau, compared to 12,978 hotel rooms, 2,762 table games and 6,546 slot machines as of December 31, 2006. During 2016, we contributed to the new capacity in the market with the opening of Wynn Palace in the Cotai area. Several of the current concessionaires and subconcessionaires also opened additional facilities from 2016 through 2018 in the Cotai area and will open additional facilities over the next few years, which will further increase other gaming and non-gaming offerings in the Macau market. 

Our Macau Operations face competition primarily from the 39 other casinos located throughout Macau in addition to casinos located throughout the world, including Singapore, South Korea, the Philippines, Vietnam, Cambodia, Malaysia, Australia, Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout Asia. Additionally, certain other Asian countries and regions have legalized or in the future may legalize gaming, such as Japan, Taiwan and Thailand, which could increase competition for our Macau Operations.

Las Vegas

Las Vegas is the largest gaming market in the United States. Although Las Vegas Strip gaming revenues remained relatively flat at $6.6 billion for each of the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, visitation and hotel room demand remained strong. Overall Las Vegas visitor volume was 42.5 million in 2019. Passenger traffic at McCarran International Airport increased 3.8% in 2019, following year-over-year increases of 5.8%, 4.5%, and 4.7% from 2016 to 2018, respectively. During 2019, the average daily room rate and revenue per available room on the Las Vegas Strip increased 3.2% and 4.3%, 

7 
respectively. Occupancy on the Las Vegas Strip increased 0.9% to 90.4%, from 89.5% in 2018. Convention attendees increased 2.3% in 2019, following year-over-year increases of 13.4%, 7.1%, and 3.0% from 2016 to 2018, respectively. 

Wynn Las Vegas is located on the Las Vegas Strip and competes with other high-quality resorts and hotel casinos in Las Vegas. Wynn Las Vegas also competes, to some extent, with other casino resorts throughout the United States and elsewhere in the world.

Massachusetts

Massachusetts and its neighboring states of Connecticut and Rhode Island are host to a large, established casino market that generated over $2.5 billion of gross gaming revenue in 2019. The greater Boston metropolitan area is the largest population center in the region of New England, with a population of approximately 5 million residents. Encore Boston Harbor competes with both commercial and Native American casinos located in the northeastern United States, including two Native American casinos in Connecticut, two casinos in Rhode Island, and MGM Springfield in Massachusetts. Gaming in the New England region is characterized by a high degree of competition, based largely on location, product quality, service levels, and effectiveness in marketing to and establishing relationships with repeat visitors located in the area. Differences in regulatory landscapes across state borders may impact our ability to compete with other casinos in the region. For example, some casino operators in the region may pay lower gaming taxes, or may be permitted to offer gaming amenities we are currently unable to offer at Encore Boston Harbor. We also face competition, to a lesser degree, from operations in the region which offer other forms of legalized gaming and related recreation and leisure facilities, such as state lotteries, horse racing, online gaming, and sports betting.

Regulation and Licensing

Macau

As a casino concessionaire, Wynn Macau SA is subject to the regulatory control of the government of Macau. The government has adopted Laws and Administrative Regulations governing the operation of casinos in Macau. Only concessionaires or subconcessionaires are permitted to operate casinos. Subconcessions may be awarded subject to the approval of the Macau government and each concessionaire has issued one subconcession. Each concessionaire was required to enter into a concession agreement with the Macau government which, together with the Law and Administrative Regulations, form the framework for the regulation of the activities of the concessionaire.

Under the Law and Administrative Regulations, concessionaires are subject to suitability requirements relating to background, associations and reputation, as are stockholders of 5% or more of a concessionaire's equity securities, officers, directors and key employees. The same requirements apply to any entity engaged by a concessionaire to manage casino operations. Concessionaires are required to satisfy minimum capitalization requirements, demonstrate and maintain adequate financial capacity to operate the concession and submit to continuous monitoring of their casino operations by the Macau government. Concessionaires also are subject to periodic financial reporting requirements and reporting obligations with respect to, among other things, certain contracts, financing activities and transactions with directors, financiers and key employees. Transfers or the encumbering of interests in concessionaires must be reported to the Macau government and are ineffective without government approval.

Each concessionaire is required to engage an executive director who must be a permanent resident of Macau and the holder of at least 10% of the capital stock of the concessionaire. The appointment of the executive director and of any successor is ineffective without the approval of the Macau government. All contracts placing the management of a concessionaire's casino operations with a third party also are ineffective without the approval of the Macau government.

Concessionaires are subject to a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenue, and must also make an annual contribution of up to 4% of gross gaming revenue for the promotion of public interests, social security, infrastructure and tourism. Concessionaires are obligated to withhold applicable taxes, according to the rate in effect as set by the government, from any commissions paid to gaming promoters. The withholding rate may be adjusted from time to time.

The concession agreement between Wynn Macau SA and the Macau government required Wynn Macau SA to construct and operate one or more casino gaming properties in Macau, including, at a minimum, one full-service casino resort by the end of December 2006, and to invest not less than a total of 4 billion Macau patacas (approximately $500.0 million) in Macau-related projects by June 2009. These obligations were satisfied upon the opening of Wynn Macau in 2006.

8 
Wynn Macau SA was also obligated to obtain, and did obtain, a 700.0 million Macau pataca (approximately $87.0 million) bank guarantee from Banco National Ultramarino, S.A. ("BNU") that was effective until March 31, 2007. The amount of this guarantee was reduced to 300 million Macau patacas (approximately $37.3 million) for the period from April 1, 2007 until 180 days after the end of the term of the concession agreement. This guarantee, which is for the benefit of the Macau government, assures Wynn Macau SA's performance under the casino concession agreement, including the payment of premiums, fines and indemnity for any material failure to perform the concession agreement. Wynn Macau SA is obligated, upon demand by BNU, to promptly repay any claim made on the guarantee by the Macau government. BNU is currently paid an annual fee by Wynn Macau SA for the guarantee of approximately 2.3 million patacas (approximately $0.3 million).

Effective June 24, 2017, the government of Macau may redeem the concession and in such event, Wynn Macau SA will be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied by the remaining years before expiration of the concession.

The government of Macau may unilaterally rescind the concession if Wynn Macau SA fails to fulfill its fundamental obligations under the concession agreement. The concession agreement expressly provides that the government of Macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if Wynn Macau SA:

•conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose;

•abandons or suspends gaming operations in Macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification;

•defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts;

•does not comply with government inspections or supervision;

•systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system;

•fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government;

•is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent;

•engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or

•repeatedly and seriously violates applicable gaming laws.

If the government of Macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement for one of the reasons stated above, Wynn Macau SA will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino under Macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of Wynn Macau SA will be transferred to the government without compensation. In addition, the government of Macau may, in the public interest, unilaterally terminate the concession at any time, in which case Wynn Macau SA would be entitled to reasonable compensation.

The government of Macau may assume temporary custody and control over the operation of a concession in certain circumstances. During any such period, the costs of operations must be borne by the concessionaire. The government of Macau also may redeem a concession starting at an established date after the entering into effect of a concession.

The Macau government has publicly commented that it is studying the process by which gaming concessions and subconcessions may be extended, renewed or issued. The current term of our gaming concession ends on June 26, 2022. The gaming concession or subconcession held by each of SJM, MGM China, Galaxy, Sands, and Melco also end on June 26, 2022.

A gaming promoter, also known as a junket representative, is a person or entity who, for the purpose of promoting casino gaming activity, arranges customer transportation and accommodations, and provides credit in their sole discretion, food and beverage services and entertainment in exchange for commissions or other compensation from a concessionaire. Macau law provides that gaming promoters must be licensed by the Macau government in order to do business with and receive compensation from concessionaires. For a license to be obtained, direct and indirect owners of 5% or more of a gaming promoter (regardless of its corporate form or sole proprietor status), its directors and its key employees must be found suitable. Applicants are required to pay the cost of license investigations, and are required to maintain suitability standards during the period of licensure. The term of a gaming promoter's license is one calendar year, and licenses can be renewed for additional periods upon the submission of renewal applications. Natural person junket representative licensees are subject to a suitability verification process every three years and business entity licensees are subject to the same requirement every six years. Macau's Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau (the "DICJ") implemented certain instructions in 2009, which have the force of law, relating to commissions paid to, and by, gaming promoters. Such instructions also impose certain financial reporting and audit requirements on gaming promoters.

9 
Under Macau law, licensed gaming promoters must identify outside contractors who assist them in their promotion activities, and these contractors are subject to approval of the Macau government. Changes in the management structure of business entity gaming promoters' licensees must be reported to the Macau government and any transfer or the encumbering of interests in such licensees is ineffective without prior government approval. To conduct gaming promotion activities, licensees must be registered with one or more concessionaires and must have written contracts with such concessionaires, copies of which must be submitted to the Macau government.

Macau law further provides that concessionaires are jointly responsible with their gaming promoters for the gaming activities of such representatives and their directors and contractors in the concessionaire's casinos, and for their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Concessionaires must submit annual lists of their gaming promoters, and must update such lists on a quarterly basis. The Macau government may designate a maximum number of gaming promoters and specify the number of gaming promoters a concessionaire is permitted to engage. Concessionaires are subject to periodic reporting requirements with respect to commissions paid to their gaming promoters' representatives and are required to oversee their activities and report instances of unlawful activity.

In late 2015, the Macau government implemented enhanced accounting and financial procedures and requirements to be followed by gaming promoters. These enhanced procedures require gaming promoters to disclose more detailed financial and accounting information to the DICJ, including the disclosure of certain financial information on a monthly basis. Gaming promoters also must identify and nominate senior financial or accounting representatives to be available to the DICJ for any follow-up matters the DICJ may require.

Nevada

The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in Nevada are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act and the regulations made thereunder (collectively, the "Nevada Act"), as well as to various local ordinances. Our Las Vegas Operations are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission ("NGC"), the Nevada Gaming Control Board ("NGCB") and the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board ("CCLGLB"). The NGC and NGCB are referred to herein collectively as the "Nevada Gaming Authorities."

The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada Gaming Authorities are based upon declarations of public policy. Such public policy concerns include, among other things:

•preventing unsavory or unsuitable persons from being directly or indirectly involved with gaming at any time or in any capacity;

•establishing and maintaining responsible accounting practices and procedures;

•maintaining effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and safeguarding assets and revenue, providing reliable recordkeeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the Nevada Gaming Authorities;

•preventing cheating and fraudulent practices; and

•providing a source of state and local revenue through taxation and licensing fees.

Any changes in applicable laws, regulations and procedures could have an adverse effect on our Las Vegas gaming operations and our financial condition and results of operations.

Our subsidiary, Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, the owner and operator of Wynn Las Vegas, is licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities to conduct casino gaming operations, including a race book and sports pool, pari-mutuel wagering and the operation of gaming salons. It is also licensed as a manufacturer and distributor. These gaming licenses are not transferable.

We are required to be registered as a publicly traded corporation (a "registered public company") and to be found suitable by the NGC to own the equity interests of Wynn Resorts Holdings, LLC ("Wynn Resorts Holdings"). Wynn Resorts Holdings is required to be registered as an intermediary company and to be found suitable to own the equity interests of Wynn Resorts Finance, LLC ("Wynn Resorts Finance") (f/k/a Wynn America, LLC). Wynn Resorts Finance, LLC is required to be registered as an intermediary company and to be found suitable by the NGC to own the equity interests of Wynn Las Vegas Holdings, LLC ("Wynn Las Vegas Holdings"). Wynn Las Vegas Holdings is required to be registered as an intermediary company and to be found suitable by the NGC to own the equity interests of Wynn Las Vegas, LLC. Wynn Resorts Holdings, Wynn Resorts Finance, and Wynn Las Vegas Holdings are referred to individually as a "registered intermediary subsidiary" and collectively 

10 
as the "registered intermediary subsidiaries." We and the registered intermediary subsidiaries hold all the various registrations, approvals, permits and licenses required for Wynn Las Vegas, LLC to engage in gaming activities in Nevada.

No person may become a member of or receive profits from Wynn Las Vegas, LLC or the registered intermediary subsidiaries without first registering (for equity ownership of 5% or less), or obtaining licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to or material involvement with us to determine whether the individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. Officers, directors and certain key employees of Wynn Las Vegas, LLC and the registered intermediary subsidiaries and our officers and directors who are actively and directly involved in the gaming activities of Wynn Las Vegas, LLC may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may require additional applications and may also deny an application for licensing for any reason which they deem appropriate. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. An applicant for licensing or an applicant for a finding of suitability must pay or must cause to be paid all the costs of the investigation. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the Nevada Gaming Authorities have the jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position.

If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director, or key employee unsuitable for licensing or to continue having a relationship with Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, the registered intermediary subsidiaries, or us, we would have to sever all relationships with the person. In addition, the Nevada Gaming Authorities may require Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, the registered intermediary subsidiaries, or us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Determinations of suitability are not subject to judicial review.  

If the NGC determines that we, Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, or a registered intermediary subsidiary have violated the Nevada Act, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our and our intermediary subsidiary registrations and Wynn Las Vegas, LLC's gaming license. In addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the Nevada Act at the discretion of the NGC. Further, the NGC could appoint a supervisor to operate Wynn Las Vegas and, under specified circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor's appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the premises) could be forfeited to Nevada. The limitation, conditioning or suspension of any of our gaming licenses and the appointment of a supervisor could, and revocation of any gaming license would, have a significant negative effect on our gaming operations.

Periodically, we are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the NGC and provide any other information that the NGC may require. Substantially all of our material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to, and/or approved by, the NGC.

Any beneficial owner of our voting or nonvoting securities, regardless of the number of shares owned, may be required to file an application, be investigated and have that person's suitability as a beneficial owner of voting securities determined if the NGC has reason to believe that the ownership would be inconsistent with Nevada's declared public policies. If the beneficial owner of the voting or nonvoting securities of Wynn Resorts who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information, including a list of its beneficial owners. The applicant must pay all costs of the investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting any investigation.

The Nevada Act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of our voting securities to report the acquisition to the NGC. The Nevada Act requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of a registered company's voting securities to apply to the NGC for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Chair of the NGCB mails the written notice requiring such filing. Under certain circumstances, an "institutional investor" as defined in the Nevada Act which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of a registered company's voting securities may apply to the NGC for a waiver of a finding of suitability if the institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. An institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may hold more than 25% but not more than 29% of a registered company's voting securities may, in certain circumstances, own up to 29% of the voting securities of a registered company for a limited period of time and maintain the waiver.

An institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the registered company, a change in the corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations of the registered company, or any of its gaming affiliates, or 

11 
any other action which the NGC finds to be inconsistent with holding the registered company's voting securities for investment purposes only. Activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include:

•voting on all matters voted on by stockholders or interest holders;

•making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in management, policies or operations; and

•other activities that the NGC may determine to be consistent with such investment intent.

We are required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada which may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure to make the disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. We are required to provide maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner of any of our voting securities. The NGC has the power to require the stock certificates of any registered company to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to the Nevada Act. The certificates representing shares of Wynn Resorts' common stock note that the shares are subject to a right of redemption and other restrictions set forth in Wynn Resorts' articles of incorporation and bylaws and that the shares are, or may become, subject to restrictions imposed by applicable gaming laws.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the NGC or by the Chair of the NGCB, or who refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in connection with the investigation of its application may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any person found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of any voting security or debt security of a registered company beyond the period of time as may be prescribed by the NGC may be guilty of a criminal offense. We will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest or to have any other relationship with us, we:

•pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities;

•allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right held by that person relating to Wynn Resorts;

•pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or

•fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person's voting securities, including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value.

The NGC may, in its discretion, require the owner of any debt or similar securities of a registered public company, to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt or other securities of the registered company if the NGC has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with Nevada's declared public policies. If the NGC decides that a person is unsuitable to own the securities, then under the Nevada Act, the registered public company can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals if, without the prior approval of the NGC, it

•pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or any distribution whatsoever;

•recognizes any voting right by the unsuitable person in connection with the securities;

•pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or

•makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction.

 We may not make a public offering (debt or equity) without the prior approval of the NGC if the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for those purposes or for similar transactions. On March 28, 2019, the NGC granted Wynn Resorts prior approval, subject to certain conditions, to make public offerings for a period of three years (the "Shelf Approval"). The Shelf Approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the Chair of the NGCB.

Changes in control of Wynn Resorts through merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisitions, management or consulting agreements, or any act or conduct by a person whereby the person obtains control may not occur without the prior approval of the NGC. Entities seeking to acquire control of a registered public company must satisfy the NGCB and the NGC concerning a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control of the registered public company.

12 
The NGC may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction.

The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada gaming licensees and registered public companies that are affiliated with the operations of Nevada gaming licensees may be harmful to stable and productive corporate gaming. The NGC has established a regulatory scheme to reduce the potential adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada's gaming industry and to further Nevada's policy in order to:

•assure the financial stability of corporate gaming licensees and their affiliated companies;

•preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and

•promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs.

Approvals are, in certain circumstances, required from the NGC before we can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above its current market price and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. The Nevada Act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by a registered company's board of directors in response to a tender offer made directly to its stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control.

The Nevada Act requires any person who individually or in association with others, acquires or holds any amount of any class of voting securities, or each plan sponsor of a pension or employee benefit plan that acquires or holds any amount of any class of voting securities in a registered public company with the intent to engage in an activity that necessitates an amendment to a corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operation of a registered public company, to engage in an activity that materially influences or affects the affairs of a registered public company, or to engage any other activity that the NGC determines is inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes to, within 2 days after possession of that intent, notify the NGCB Chair and apply to the NGC for a finding of suitability within 30 days after notification to the NGCB Chair. 

License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the State of Nevada and to the counties and cities in which the licensed subsidiaries' respective operations are conducted. Depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon a percentage of the gross revenue received; the number of gaming devices operated; or the number of table games operated. A live entertainment tax also is imposed on admission charges where live entertainment is furnished.

Because we are involved in gaming ventures outside of Nevada, we are required to deposit with the NGCB, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation of the NGCB of our participation in such foreign gaming. The revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the NGC. Thereafter, we are also required to comply with certain reporting requirements imposed by the Nevada Act. A licensee or registrant is also subject to disciplinary action by the NGC if it:

•knowingly violates any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation;

•fails to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations;

•engages in any activity or enters into any association that is unsuitable because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to reflect, discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in Nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of Nevada;

•engages in activities or enters into associations that are harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees; or

•employs, contracts with or associates with a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of unsuitability.

 The conduct of gaming activities and the service and sale of alcoholic beverages at Wynn Las Vegas are subject to licensing, control and regulation by the CCLGLB, which has granted Wynn Las Vegas, LLC licenses for such purposes. In addition to approving Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, the CCLGLB has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the equity of any entity controlling a gaming license. Certain of our officers, directors and key employees have been or may be required to file applications with the CCLGLB. Clark County gaming and liquor licenses are not transferable. The County has 

13 
full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any license. Any disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a substantial negative impact on our operations.

Massachusetts

The Massachusetts Expanded Gaming Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively the "Massachusetts Act") subjects the owners and operators of gaming establishments to extensive state licensing and regulatory requirements. We are subject to the Massachusetts Act through our ownership interest in Wynn MA, LLC, ("Wynn MA") which operates Encore Boston Harbor.

The Massachusetts Gaming Commission ("MGC") is responsible for issuing licenses under the Massachusetts Act and assuring that licenses are not issued or held by unqualified, disqualified or unsuitable persons. The MGC, in particular its Investigations and Enforcement Bureau ("IEB"), which is a bureau within the MGC, has extensive authority to conduct background investigations of applicants and licensees, and for generally enforcing the Massachusetts Act. The MGC has the authority to award up to three Category 1 licenses (table games and slot machines), and one Category 2 license (slot machines only), within the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to qualified applicants.

On September 17, 2014, the MGC designated Wynn MA the award winner of the Category 1 Greater Boston gaming license effective November 7, 2014. We, our relevant subsidiaries, and individual qualifiers required to be qualified have been found suitable by the MGC. Additional entities and key employees have been and will be required to file applications with the MGC and are or may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the MGC. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the MGC.

If the MGC were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. In addition, the MGC may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications.

The initial license term is for 15 years, which commenced upon the MGC’s confirmation of its approval of the commencement of the operation of the gaming establishment on June 27, 2019. Wynn MA's gaming license is conditioned upon Wynn MA continuing to meet applicable licensing, registration, qualification and other regulatory requirements. The initial license fee for Category 1 licenses is $85,000,000, which Wynn MA has paid. All Category 1 and Category 2 gaming licenses are also subject to additional annual fees under the Massachusetts Act. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts also receives 25% of gross gaming revenues for Category 1 licensees. 

The MGC has responsibility for the continuing regulation and licensing of the licensee and its officers, directors, employees and other designated persons. The MGC retains the authority to suspend, revoke or condition a Category 1 license, or any other license issued under the Massachusetts Act, and the IEB may levy civil penalties for regulatory and other violations. All licenses issued under the Massachusetts Act are expressly deemed a revocable privilege, conditioned on the licensee's fulfillment of all conditions of licensure, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and the licensee's continuing qualification and suitability. Among other things, the MGC is also responsible for the collection of application, license and other fees, conducting investigations of and monitoring applicants and licensees, and reviewing and ruling on complaints, and may conduct inspections of the gaming establishment premises or the licensee's records and equipment.

Pursuant to the Massachusetts Act, the MGC may grant a gaming beverage license for the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages for a gaming establishment. The division of gaming liquor enforcement of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission has the authority to enforce, regulate and control the distribution of alcoholic beverages in a gaming establishment. The MGC may revoke, suspend, refuse to renew or refuse to transfer a gaming beverage license for violations of the Massachusetts Act that pertain to the sale and distribution of alcohol consumed on the premises and the regulations adopted by the MGC. The MGC has adopted regulations for the issuance of gaming beverage licenses. These regulations and any changes in applicable laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our future Massachusetts gaming operations and results of operations.

14 
Other Regulations

In addition to gaming regulations, we are subject to extensive local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations relating to alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employment and immigration, currency and other transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, marketing and advertising, lending, debt collection, privacy, telemarketing, money laundering, laws and regulations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, and anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"). Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Any material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our business and operating results.

Employees

As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 30,200 employees (including approximately 13,800 in Macau and 16,400 in the United States).

Our collective bargaining agreement with the Culinary Workers Union, Local 226, and Bartenders Union, Local 165, which covers approximately 5,500 employees at Wynn Las Vegas, expires in July 2021. Our collective bargaining agreement with the Transport Workers Union, Local 721, which covers approximately 400 of our table games dealers at Wynn Las Vegas, was rendered null and void by the union's disclaimer of interest in March 2019. Subsequently, in March 2019, the table games dealers at Wynn Las Vegas voted to be represented by the United Auto Workers Union. Wynn Las Vegas is in the process of negotiating a new collective bargaining agreement. In December 2018, employees in the horticulture and transportation departments at Wynn Las Vegas voted to be represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and Wynn Las Vegas is in the process of negotiating a collective bargaining agreement which would cover approximately 190 employees.

In April 2019, Encore Boston Harbor entered into a memorandum of agreement with UNITE HERE, Local 26, for certain of the non-gaming service positions at the facility. Encore Boston Harbor is in the process of negotiating an initial collective bargaining agreement with the union, which will cover a majority of employees at the facility.

Intellectual Property

Among our most important marks are our trademarks and service marks that use the name "WYNN." Wynn Resorts has registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ("PTO") a variety of WYNN-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. 

We have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries, including in Macau, China, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan, certain European countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of WYNN-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. 

We recognize that our intellectual property assets, including the word and logo version of "WYNN," are among our most valuable assets. As a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the United States, we have undertaken a program to register our trademarks and other intellectual property rights in relevant jurisdictions. We have retained counsel and intend to take all steps necessary to protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world.

Pursuant to the Surname Rights Agreement, dated August 6, 2004, Stephen A. Wynn ("Mr. Wynn") granted us our exclusive, fully paid-up, perpetual, worldwide license to use, and to own and register trademarks and service marks incorporating the "Wynn" surname for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the right to sublicense the name and marks to its affiliates. Pursuant to a separation agreement, dated February 15, 2018, by and between Mr. Wynn and the Company, if we cease to use the "Wynn" surname and trademark, we will assign all of our right, title, and interest in the "Wynn" trademark to Mr. Wynn and terminate the Surname Rights Agreement. 

We have also registered various domain names with various domain registrars around the world. Our domain registrations extend to various foreign jurisdictions such as ".com.cn" and ".com.hk." We pursue domain related infringement on a case by case basis depending on the infringing domain in question. The information found on these websites is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report we file or furnish to the SEC.

15 
For more information regarding the Company's intellectual property matters, see Item 1A—"Risk Factors."

Forward-Looking Statements

We make forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K based upon the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, information about our business strategy, development activities, competition and possible or assumed future results of operations, throughout this report and are often preceded by, followed by or include the words "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "intend," "plan," "continue" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions.

Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in these forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties in Item 1A—"Risk Factors" and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the SEC, such as:

•extensive regulation of our business and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations;

•pending or future claims and legal proceedings, regulatory or enforcement actions or probity investigations;

•our ability to maintain our gaming licenses and concessions;

•our dependence on key employees;

•general global political and economic conditions, in the U.S. and China (including the Chinese government's ongoing anti-corruption campaign), which may impact levels of travel, leisure, and consumer spending;

•restrictions or conditions on visitation by citizens of mainland China to Macau;

•the impact on the travel and leisure industry from factors such as an outbreak of an infectious disease, public incidents of violence, riots, demonstrations, extreme weather patterns or natural disasters, military conflicts, civil unrest, and any future security alerts and/or terrorist attacks;

•doing business in foreign locations such as Macau;

•our ability to maintain our customer relationships and collect and enforce gaming receivables;

•our relationships with Macau gaming promoters;

•our dependence on a limited number of resorts and locations for all of our cash flow and our subsidiaries' ability to pay us dividends and distributions;

•competition in the casino/hotel and resort industries and actions taken by our competitors, including new development and construction activities of competitors;

•factors affecting the development and success of new gaming and resort properties (including limited labor resources, government labor and gaming policies and transportation infrastructure in Macau; and cost increases, environmental regulation, and our ability to secure necessary permits and approvals in Everett, Massachusetts);

•construction risks (including disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; construction, equipment or staffing problems; shortages of materials or skilled labor; environment, health and safety issues; and unanticipated cost increases);

•legalization and growth of gaming in other jurisdictions;

•any violations by us of the anti-money laundering laws or Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;

•adverse incidents or adverse publicity concerning our resorts or our corporate responsibilities;

•changes in gaming laws or regulations;

•changes in federal, foreign, or state tax laws or the administration of such laws;

•continued compliance with all provisions in our debt agreements;

•conditions precedent to funding under our credit facilities; 

•leverage and debt service (including sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates);

•cybersecurity risk, including cyber and physical security breaches, system failure, computer viruses, and negligent or intentional misuse by customers, company employees, or employees of third-party vendors;

•our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; and

•our current and future insurance coverage levels.

Further information on potential factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and business are included in this report and our other filings with the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based only on information available to us at the time this statement is made. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

16 
Item 1A. Risk Factors