Item 7.  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain percentages presented in this discussion and analysis are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts and therefore may not recalculate from the rounded numbers used for disclosure purposes. Certain amounts in the 2018 and 2017 consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the 2019 presentation. The following discussion, analysis and comparisons generally focus on the operating results for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Discussion, analysis and comparisons of the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

EXECUTIVE LEVEL OVERVIEW 

2019 Financial Highlights 

In 2019, our net sales increased by 0.6 percent compared to 2018. We estimate changes in volume/mix of our products and pricing had a positive effect of 2.2 percent on our 2019 sales while changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a negative effect of 1.6 percent. Notably, our sales growth was higher in the second half of the year compared to the first half of the year primarily due to various product launches in our Knees product category, which drove improved commercial execution. The improved second half performance was present in all of our product categories and geographic regions. Additionally, the negative impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates was less in the second half of 2019 compared to the first half.  

Our net earnings increased by more than $1.5 billion in 2019 from 2018. We had significant goodwill and intangible asset impairments and litigation-related charges in 2018, which contributed to a net loss that year. In 2019, expenses related to quality remediation, as well as acquisition and integration, declined due to the continued progress in completing those projects. Higher sales, lower interest expense and the recognition of a deferred tax benefit related to Switzerland tax reform resulted in the significant increase in earnings in 2019 compared to 2018.  

2020 Outlook  

We believe that the improved sales performance in the second half of 2019 will continue into 2020. We estimate sales growth in 2020 compared to 2019 will be in a range of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent. We anticipate the impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates will be minimal for 2020. We expect to be able to leverage the sales growth into higher operating profits. Additionally, we expect reductions in quality remediation costs, as well as other various project costs, as we complete these initiatives. We have recently initiated restructuring activities designed to reduce our operating costs in the long-term. These activities are expected to result in expenses of approximately $350 million to $400 million through the end of 2023, with slightly more than half of that expected to be incurred in 2020. Further, we expect interest expense, net, will continue to decline in 2020 due to lower average outstanding debt balances.  

Our 2020 outlook does not consider any impacts from the recent outbreak of the coronavirus. While there could be a near-term effect on our operating results, it is difficult to assess or predict how material the impact will be and what long-term effects the outbreak may have.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

We analyze sales by three geographies, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, and by the following product categories: Knees, Hips, S.E.T., Dental, Spine & CMF and Other. This sales analysis differs from our reportable operating segments, which are based upon our senior management organizational structure and how we allocate resources towards achieving operating profit goals. We analyze sales by geography because the underlying market trends in any particular geography tend to be similar across product categories and because we primarily sell the same products in all geographies.  

30 

Net Sales by Geography 

The following tables present net sales by geography and the components of the percentage changes (dollars in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

“Foreign Exchange” used in the tables in this report represents the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on sales.  

Net Sales by Product Category 

The following tables present net sales by product category and the components of the percentage changes (dollars in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

31 

The following table presents net sales by product category by geography for our Knees and Hips product categories, which represent our most significant product categories (dollars in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Demand (Volume/Mix) Trends  

Increased volume and changes in the mix of product sales had a positive effect of 4.9 percent on year-over-year sales during 2019. Volume/mix growth was driven by recent product introductions, particularly in our Knees product category, sales in key emerging markets and market growth. Market growth has generally been influenced by an aging global population, obesity, new technologies, advances in surgical techniques and more active lifestyles, among other factors.   

Pricing Trends  

Global selling prices had a negative effect of 2.7 percent on year-over-year sales during 2019. In the majority of countries in which we operate, we continue to experience pricing pressure from governmental healthcare cost containment efforts and from local hospitals and health systems.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates 

In 2019, changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a negative effect of 1.6 percent on year-over-year sales. If foreign currency exchange rates remain at levels consistent with recent rates, we estimate they will have a minimal effect on sales in 2020 for the full year. However, we estimate sales will be negatively affected by foreign currency exchange rates in the first half of the year, but that impact will be offset by positive effects in the second half of the year. 

Sales by Product Category 

Knees  

Knee sales increased by 1.3 percent in 2019 compared to 2018. Various product launches resulted in improved volume/mix growth in the knee product category, which was partially offset by price declines and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Knee sales growth was principally driven by increased demand for Persona® The Personalized Knee System, the Oxford® Partial Knee and the ROSA® Knee System. 

Hips  

Hip sales increased by 0.7 percent in 2019 compared to 2018. Volume/mix growth in this product category was partially offset by price declines and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Hip sales growth was primarily attributable to increased utilization of our Taperloc® Complete Hip System and G7® Acetabular System.  

S.E.T. 

S.E.T. sales increased by 2.5 percent in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to supply stability, salesforce specialization and new product launches, partially offset by price declines and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  

32 

Spine & CMF 

Spine and CMF sales decreased by 2.2 percent in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to ongoing sales channel consolidation in our Spine division, price declines and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Demand for our thoracic products continued to positively contribute to sales. 

Dental  

Dental sales increased by 0.7 percent in 2019 compared to 2018. Volume/mix growth in our Dental product category improved primarily due to investment of resources in priority areas, as well as other operational improvements. 

The following table presents estimated* 2019 global market information (dollars in billions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

*  

Estimates are not precise and are based on competitor annual filings, Wall Street equity research and Company estimates 

**  

Excludes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on sales growth 

Expenses as a Percent of Net Sales 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

33 

Cost of Products Sold and Intangible Asset Amortization 

We calculate gross profit as net sales minus cost of products sold and intangible asset amortization. Our gross margin percentage is gross profit divided by net sales. The following table sets forth the factors that contributed to the gross margin changes in each of 2019 and 2018 compared to the prior year: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in gross margin percentage in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to the effect of our hedging program, lower royalty expense, a refund related to U.S. medical device excise taxes and lower intangible asset amortization. We incurred hedge gains of $38.4 million in 2019 compared to hedge losses of $26.2 million in 2018. For derivatives which qualify as hedges of future cash flows, the effective portion of changes in fair value is temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income and then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged items affect earnings. The refund of a portion of the U.S. medical device excise tax was the result of a change in the methodology we used to calculate the constructive sales price upon which the taxes were paid. On July 1, 2019 the IRS approved and agreed to our change in methodology. The reduction in royalty expense was partially the result of an agreement we entered into on April 1, 2019. Under the agreement, we paid $192.5 million to buy out certain licensing arrangements from an unrelated third party. This new agreement and the related payment replace the variable royalty payments that otherwise would have been due under the terms of previous licensing arrangements through 2029. The payment was recorded as an intangible asset and will be amortized through 2029. Intangible asset amortization expense declined in 2019 due to certain intangible assets from past acquisitions being fully amortized, partially offset by additional amortization from the agreement to buy out certain licensing arrangements we entered into on April 1, 2019. These favorable items were partially offset by lower average selling prices and higher manufacturing costs. 

Operating Expenses 

R&D expenses as a percentage of net sales increased in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to increased investment in our Knee product pipeline, costs associated with the EU MDR and patent licenses acquired for use in R&D activities that were expensed immediately. 

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses and SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales decreased in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to lower litigation-related charges. In 2018, we recognized a $168 million litigation charge for a patent infringement lawsuit. The lower litigation-related charges were partially offset by higher selling costs due to higher sales, investments in preparation for new product launches, and higher expenses from legal entity, distribution and manufacturing optimization, including distributor contract terminations.  

In 2019, we recognized a $70.1 million in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) intangible asset impairment on certain IPR&D projects that we terminated. In 2018, we recognized goodwill impairment charges of $975.9 million primarily related to our EMEA and Spine reporting units. 

Our quality remediation expenses continued to decline in 2019 due to the natural regression of completing our remediation milestones. Similarly, acquisition, integration and related expenses declined mainly due to the completion of certain integration efforts.  

In December 2019, our Board of Directors approved, and we initiated, a new global restructuring program with an overall objective of reducing costs to allow us to invest in higher priority growth opportunities. We recognized expenses of $50.0 million in 2019 primarily related to severance associated with this program as well as expenses  

34 

incurred related to a supply chain optimization initiative. The 2018 cost reduction expenses only included expenses related to the supply chain optimization initiative.  

Other Expense, net, Interest Expense, net, and Income Taxes 

Our other expense, net, primarily relates to certain components of pension expense, investment gains and losses and remeasurement gains and losses related to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency other than an entity’s functional currency, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency forward exchange contracts we entered into to mitigate any gain or loss. The decline in other expense, net in 2019 was driven by higher pension-related gains.  

Interest expense, net, declined in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to continued debt repayments and gains related to our cross-currency interest rate swaps. 

Our effective tax rate (“ETR”) on earnings (loss) before income taxes was negative 24.9 percent (a tax benefit was recognized on earnings before income taxes) and negative 39.9 percent (a tax provision was recognized on a loss before income taxes) for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. In 2019, we recognized an overall tax benefit in the year due to a $315.0 million benefit from Switzerland’s Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (“TRAF”) in addition to the tax impact of certain restructuring transactions in Switzerland. The TRAF is effective January 1, 2020 and includes the abolishment of various favorable federal and cantonal tax regimes. The TRAF provides transitional relief measures for companies that are losing the tax benefit of a ruling, including a "step-up" for amortizable goodwill, equal to the amount of future tax benefit they would have received under their existing ruling, subject to certain limitations.  

In 2018, our negative ETR was primarily due to goodwill impairment that resulted in us having a net loss before income taxes with no associated tax benefit recognized for this charge. In 2018, we also recognized an additional $8.3 million of income tax provision as we completed our estimate of the effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“2017 Tax Act”).  

Absent discrete tax events, we expect our future ETR will be lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 21.0 percent due to our mix of earnings between U.S. and foreign locations, which have lower corporate income tax rates. Our ETR in future periods could also potentially be impacted by: changes in our mix of pre-tax earnings; changes in tax rates, tax laws or their interpretation, including the European Union rules on state aid; the outcome of various federal, state and foreign audits; and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations. Currently, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of these items on our financial results.  

Segment Operating Profit 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In the Americas, operating profit as a percentage of net sales increased in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase was primarily due to improved sales volume/mix and controlled spending. In EMEA, operating profit as a percentage of net sales increased in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase was primarily due to higher sales volume/mix and gains recognized related to our hedging program. In Asia Pacific, operating profit as a percentage of net sales increased in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to volume/mix net sales growth and gains recognized related to our hedging program.  

Non-GAAP Operating Performance Measures 

We use financial measures that differ from financial measures determined in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) to evaluate our operating performance. These non-GAAP financial  

35 

measures exclude, as applicable, the impact of inventory step-up; certain inventory and manufacturing-related charges including charges to discontinue certain product lines; intangible asset amortization; goodwill and intangible asset impairment; quality remediation expenses; restructuring and other cost reduction initiatives; acquisition, integration and related expenses; certain litigation gains and charges; expenses to comply with the EU MDR; other charges; any related effects on our income tax provision associated with these items; the effect of Switzerland tax reform; the effect of the 2017 Tax Act; other certain tax adjustments; and, with respect to earnings per share information, provide for the effect of dilutive shares assuming net earnings in a period of a reported net loss. We use these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate the performance of the business. Additionally, we believe these non-GAAP measures provide meaningful incremental information to investors to consider when evaluating our performance. We believe these measures offer the ability to make period-to-period comparisons that are not impacted by certain items that can cause dramatic changes in reported income but that do not impact the fundamentals of our operations. The non-GAAP measures enable the evaluation of operating results and trend analysis by allowing a reader to better identify operating trends that may otherwise be masked or distorted by these types of items that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures. In addition, adjusted diluted earnings per share is used as a performance metric in our incentive compensation programs. 

Our non-GAAP adjusted net earnings used for internal management purposes for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 were $1,626.4 million, $1,565.4 million and $1,636.4 million, respectively, and our non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share were $7.87, $7.64 and $8.03, respectively.  

The following are reconciliations from our GAAP net earnings and diluted earnings per share to our non-GAAP adjusted net earnings and non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share used for internal management purposes (in millions, except per share amounts):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

36 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

Inventory step-up and other inventory and manufacturing-related charges relate to inventory step-up expense, excess and obsolete inventory charges on certain product lines we intend to discontinue and other inventory and manufacturing-related charges. The year ended December 31, 2019 included a $20.8 million charge incurred to terminate a raw material supply agreement. Inventory step-up expense represents the incremental expense of inventory sold recognized at its fair value after business combination accounting is applied versus the expense that would have been recognized if sold at its cost to manufacture. Since only the inventory that existed at the business combination date was stepped-up to fair value, we believe excluding the incremental expense provides investors useful information as to what our costs may have been if we had not been required to increase the inventory’s book value to fair value. The excess and obsolete inventory charges on certain product lines are driven by acquisitions where there are competing product lines and we have plans to discontinue one of the competing product lines.  

(2)  

We exclude intangible asset amortization from our non-GAAP financial measures because we internally assess our performance against our peers without this amortization. Due to various levels of acquisitions among our peers, intangible asset amortization can vary significantly from company to company. 

(3)  

In 2019 and 2018, we recognized $70.1 and $3.8 million, respectively, of intangible asset impairments from merger-related IPR&D intangible assets. Also in 2018, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $975.9 million. The impairment was comprised of $401.2 million in our Spine reporting unit, $567.0 million in our EMEA reporting unit and $7.7 million in an insignificant reporting unit. In 2017, we recognized $18.8 million and $8.0 million of intangible asset impairment from merger-related IPR&D and trademark intangible assets, respectively. Also in 2017, we recognized goodwill impairment charges of $32.7 million and $272.0 million on our Office Based Technologies and Spine reporting units, respectively. 

(4)  

We are addressing inspectional observations on Form 483 and a Warning Letter issued by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) following its previous inspections of our Warsaw North Campus facility, among other matters. This quality remediation has required us to devote significant financial resources and is for a discrete period of time. The majority of the expenses are related to consultants who are helping us to update previous documents and redesign certain processes. 

(5)  

In December 2019, our Board of Directors approved, and we initiated, a new global restructuring program with an overall objective of reducing costs to allow us to invest in higher priority growth opportunities. In 2019, the expenses were primarily related to severance and our supply chain optimization initiative. The 2018 and 2017 expenses were related to our supply chain optimization initiative. 

(6)  

The acquisition, integration and related gains and expenses we have excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures resulted from various acquisitions. The acquisition, integration and related gains and expenses include the following types of gains and expenses:  

•  

Consulting and professional fees related to third-party integration consulting performed in a variety of areas, such as tax, compliance, logistics and human resources, and legal fees related to the consummation of mergers and acquisitions.  

37 

•  

Employee termination benefits related to terminating employees with overlapping responsibilities in various areas of our business.  

•  

Dedicated project personnel expenses which include the salary, benefits, travel expenses and other costs directly associated with employees who are 100 percent dedicated to our integration of acquired businesses and employees who have been notified of termination, but are continuing to work on transferring their responsibilities.  

•  

Contract termination expenses related to terminated contracts, primarily with sales agents and distribution agreements.  

•  

Other various expenses to relocate facilities, integrate information technology, losses incurred on assets resulting from the applicable acquisition, and other various expenses. 

(7)  

We are involved in routine patent litigation, product liability litigation, commercial litigation and other various litigation matters. We review litigation matters from both a qualitative and quantitative perspective to determine if excluding the losses or gains will provide our investors with useful incremental information. Litigation matters can vary in their characteristics, frequency and significance to our operating results. The litigation charges and gains excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures in the periods presented relate to product liability matters where we have received numerous claims on specific products, patent litigation and commercial litigation related to a common matter in multiple jurisdictions. In regards to the product liability matters, due to the complexities involved and claims filed in multiple districts, the expenses associated with these matters are significant to our operating results. Once the litigation matter has been excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures in a particular period, any additional expenses or gains from changes in estimates are also excluded, even if they are not significant, to ensure consistency in our non-GAAP financial measures from period-to-period. 

(8)  

In the first quarter of 2019, we settled a patent infringement lawsuit out of court, and the other party agreed to pay us an upfront, lump-sum amount for a non-exclusive license to the patent. 

(9)  

The EU MDR imposes significant additional premarket and postmarket requirements. The new regulations provide a transition period until May 2020 for currently-approved medical devices to meet the additional requirements. For certain devices, this transition period can be extended until May 2024. We are excluding from our non-GAAP financial measures the incremental costs incurred to establish initial compliance with the regulations related to our currently-approved medical devices. The incremental costs primarily include third-party consulting necessary to supplement our internal resources.  

(10)  

We have incurred other various expenses from specific events or projects that we consider highly variable or that have a significant impact to our operating results that we have excluded from our non-GAAP measures. These include costs related to legal entity, distribution and manufacturing optimization, including contract terminations, as well as our costs of complying with our Deferred Prosecution Agreement (“DPA”) with the U.S. government related to certain Foreign Corrupt Practices Act matters involving Biomet and certain of its subsidiaries. Under the DPA, which has a three-year term, we are subject to oversight by an independent compliance monitor, which monitorship commenced in August 2017. The excluded costs include the fees paid to the independent compliance monitor and to external legal counsel assisting in the matter.  

(11)  

Represents the tax effects on the previously specified items. The tax effect for the U.S. jurisdiction is calculated based on an effective rate considering federal and state taxes, as well as permanent items. For jurisdictions outside the U.S., the tax effect is calculated based upon the statutory rates where the items were incurred. 

(12)  

The 2017 Tax Act resulted in a net favorable provisional adjustment due to the reduction of deferred tax liabilities for unremitted earnings and revaluation of deferred tax liabilities to a 21 percent rate, which was partially offset by provisional tax charges related to the toll charge provision of the 2017 Tax Act. In 2018, we finalized our estimates of the effects of the 2017 Tax Act based upon final guidance issued by U.S. tax authorities. 

(13)  

We recognized a tax benefit related to TRAF in addition to an impact from certain restructuring transactions in Switzerland. 

(14)  

Other certain tax adjustments relate to various discrete tax period adjustments, including changes in statutory tax rates, adjustments from internal restructuring transactions that provide us access to offshore funds in a tax efficient manner and resolutions of various tax matters. 

(15)  

Diluted share count used in Adjusted Diluted EPS (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

38 

Cash flows provided by operating activities were $1,585.8 million in 2019 compared to $1,747.4 million and $1,582.3 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decrease in operating cash flows in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to a payment of approximately $168 million on a patent infringement lawsuit. Additionally, in 2018 we expanded our sale of accounts receivable in certain countries which provided additional cash inflows, compared to 2019 when we sold fewer receivables at the end of the year which had a negative effect on operating cash flows.  

Cash flows used in investing activities were $729.3 million in 2019 compared to $416.6 million and $510.8 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively. In 2019, we paid $197.6 million to buy out certain licensing arrangements from unrelated third parties. Instrument and property, plant and equipment additions reflected ongoing investments in our product portfolio and optimization of our manufacturing and logistics network, including investments in instruments in 2019 to support new product launches.  

Cash flows used in financing activities were $779.9 million in 2019. Our primary use of available cash in 2019 was for debt repayment. We received net proceeds of $549.2 million from the issuance of additional Euro-denominated senior notes which we used to repay $500.0 million of senior notes that became due on November 30, 2019. In January 2019, we borrowed an additional $200.0 million under a U.S. term loan (“U.S. Term Loan C”) and used those proceeds, along with cash on hand, to repay the remaining $225.0 million outstanding under the U.S. term loan (“U.S. Term Loan B”) provided for under our 2016 credit agreement. During 2019 we also repaid the $735.0 million outstanding balance under U.S. Term Loan C, with the remainder of the proceeds from the Euro-denominated senior notes issuance and cash from operations. Overall, we had approximately $710 million of net principal repayments on our senior notes and term loans in 2019. In 2018, we received net proceeds of $749.5 million from the issuance of additional senior notes and borrowed $400.0 million from our $1.5 billion multicurrency revolving facility provided for under our 2016 credit agreement (the “2016 Multicurrency Revolving Facility”) to repay $1,150.0 million of senior notes that became due on April 2, 2018. We subsequently repaid the $400.0 million of 2016 Multicurrency Revolving Facility borrowings in 2018. Also in 2018, we borrowed $675.0 million under U.S. Term Loan C and used the cash proceeds along with cash generated from operations throughout the year to repay an aggregate of $835.0 million on U.S. Term Loan A, $450.0 million on U.S. Term Loan B, and we subsequently repaid $140.0 million on U.S. Term Loan C. Overall, we had approximately $1,150 million of net principal repayments on our senior notes and term loans in 2018.  

In February, May, August and December 2019, our Board of Directors declared cash dividends of $0.24 per share. We expect to continue paying cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future dividends are subject to approval of the Board of Directors and may be adjusted as business needs or market conditions change.  

In February 2016, our Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program effective March 1, 2016, with no expiration date. As of December 31, 2019, all $1.0 billion remained authorized for repurchase under the program. 

We will continue to exercise disciplined capital allocation designed to drive stockholder value creation. We intend to use available cash for debt repayment, reinvestment in the business and payment of dividends. If the right opportunities arise, we may also use available cash to pursue business development opportunities.  

As discussed in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements, in December 2019, our Board of Directors approved, and we initiated, a new global restructuring program with an objective of reducing costs to allow us to further invest in higher priority growth opportunities. The restructuring program is expected to result in total pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $350 million to $400 million, with slightly more than half of that expected to be incurred in 2020. We expect to reduce gross annual pre-tax operating expenses by approximately $200 million to $300 million by the end of 2023 as program benefits are realized. 

As discussed in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has issued proposed adjustments for years 2005 through 2012 reallocating profits between certain of our U.S. and foreign subsidiaries. We have disputed these proposed adjustments and continue to pursue resolution with the IRS. Although the ultimate timing for resolution of the disputed tax issues is uncertain, future payments may be significant to our operating cash flows. 

As discussed in Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements, as of December 31, 2019, we have an estimated liability of $59.9 million related to Durom Cup product liability claims and a liability of $50.1 million related to Biomet metal-on-metal hip implant claims on our consolidated balance sheet. We expect to continue paying these claims over the next few years.  

39 

At December 31, 2019, our outstanding debt consisted of senior notes and term loans as follows (dollars in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We have a five-year unsecured multicurrency revolving facility of $1.5 billion (the “2019 Multicurrency Revolving Facility”) that will mature on November 1, 2024. There were no outstanding borrowings under this facility as of December 31, 2019. The 2019 Multicurrency Revolving Facility replaced the 2016 Multicurrency Revolving Facility, effective November 1, 2019. We also had other available uncommitted credit facilities totaling $45.3 million as of December 31, 2019.  

We have $1.5 billion principal amount of notes due April 1, 2020. We believe we can satisfy this debt obligation with cash generated from our operations, by issuing new debt, and/or by borrowing on our 2019 Multicurrency Revolving Facility. We believe that our earnings, balance sheet and cash flows will allow us to obtain additional capital, if necessary, to satisfy this debt obligation. 

For additional information on our debt, see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. 

We place our cash and cash equivalents in highly-rated financial institutions and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. We invest only in high-quality financial instruments in accordance with our internal investment policy.  

As of December 31, 2019, $373.4 million of our cash and cash equivalents were held in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Of this amount, $102.1 million is denominated in U.S. Dollars and, therefore, bears no foreign currency translation risk. The balance of these assets is denominated in currencies of the various countries where we operate. In the future, we intend to repatriate at least $5.0 billion of unremitted earnings, of which the additional tax related to remitting earnings is deemed immaterial. 

Management believes that cash flows from operations and available borrowings under the 2019 Multicurrency Revolving Facility are sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure and debt service needs, as well as return cash to stockholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. Should additional investment opportunities arise, we believe that our earnings, balance sheet and cash flows will allow us to obtain additional capital, if necessary. 

40 

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS 

We have entered into contracts with various third parties in the normal course of business that will require future payments. The following table illustrates our contractual obligations and certain other commitments (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

$118.6 million of the other long-term liabilities on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2019 are liabilities related to defined benefit pension plans. Defined benefit plan liabilities are based upon the underfunded status of the respective plans; they are not based upon future contributions. Due to uncertainties regarding future plan asset performance, changes in interest rates and our intentions with respect to voluntary contributions, we are unable to reasonably estimate future contributions beyond 2020. Therefore, this table does not include any amounts related to future contributions to our plans. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on our defined benefit plans.  

Under the 2017 Tax Act, we have a $234.9 million toll charge liability for the one-time deemed repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings. This amount was recorded in non-current income tax liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2019. We have elected to pay the toll charge in installments over eight years. 

Also included in long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits and corresponding interest and penalties thereon. Due to the uncertainties inherent in these liabilities, such as the ultimate timing and resolution of tax audits, we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount or period in which potential tax payments related to these positions will be made. Therefore, this table does not include any obligations related to unrecognized tax benefits. See Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on these tax-related accounts. 

We have entered into various agreements that may result in future payments dependent upon various events such as the achievement of certain product R&D milestones, sales milestones, or, at our discretion, maintenance of exclusive rights to distribute a product. Since there is uncertainty on the timing or whether such payments will have to be made, we have not included them in this table. These payments could range from $0 to $60 million. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 

Our financial results are affected by the selection and application of accounting policies and methods. Significant accounting policies which require management’s judgment are discussed below. 

Excess Inventory and Instruments - We must determine as of each balance sheet date how much, if any, of our inventory may ultimately prove to be unsaleable or unsaleable at our carrying cost. Similarly, we must also determine if instruments on hand will be put to productive use or remain undeployed as a result of excess supply. Accordingly, inventory and instruments are written down to their net realizable value. To determine the appropriate net realizable value, we evaluate current stock levels in relation to historical and expected patterns of demand for all of our products and instrument systems and components. The basis for the determination is generally the same for all inventory and instrument items and categories except for work‑in‑process inventory, which is recorded at cost. Obsolete or discontinued items are generally destroyed and completely written off. Management evaluates the need for changes to the net realizable values of inventory and instruments based on market conditions, competitive offerings and other factors on a regular basis.  

Income Taxes - Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the consolidated income tax expense.  

41 

We estimate income tax expense and income tax liabilities and assets by taxable jurisdiction. Realization of deferred tax assets in each taxable jurisdiction is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income sufficient to realize the benefits. We evaluate deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis and provide valuation allowances unless we determine it is “more likely than not” that the deferred tax benefit will be realized.  

The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. We are subject to regulatory review or audit in virtually all of those jurisdictions and those reviews and audits may require extended periods of time to resolve. We record our income tax provisions based on our knowledge of all relevant facts and circumstances, including existing tax laws, our experience with previous settlement agreements, the status of current examinations and our understanding of how the tax authorities view certain relevant industry and commercial matters.  

We recognize tax liabilities in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) guidance on income taxes and we adjust these liabilities when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which they are determined. 

Commitments and Contingencies - Accruals for product liability and other claims are established with the assistance of internal and external legal counsel based on current information and historical settlement information for claims, related legal fees and for claims incurred but not reported. We use an actuarial model to assist management in determining an appropriate level of accruals for product liability claims. Historical patterns of claim loss development over time are statistically analyzed to arrive at factors which are then applied to loss estimates in the actuarial model.  

Goodwill and Intangible Assets - We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets annually, or whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We evaluate the carrying value of finite life intangible assets whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Significant assumptions are required to estimate the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets, most notably estimated future cash flows generated by these assets and risk-adjusted discount rates. As such, these fair value measurements use significant unobservable inputs. Changes to these assumptions could require us to record impairment charges on these assets.  

In our annual impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2019, we estimated the fair value of our EMEA and Dental reporting units only exceeded their carrying values by less than 5 percent. Fair value was determined using income and market approaches. Fair value under the income approach was determined by discounting to present value the estimated future cash flows of the reporting units. Significant assumptions are incorporated into the income approach, such as estimated growth rates and risk-adjusted discount rates. Fair value under the market approach utilized the guideline public company methodology, which uses valuation indicators determined from other businesses that are similar to our EMEA and Dental reporting units. As of December 31, 2019, the remaining goodwill on the EMEA and Dental reporting units were $749.8 million and $397.7 million, respectively.  

Future impairment in the EMEA and Dental reporting units could occur if the estimates used in the income and market approaches change. If our estimates of profitability in the reporting unit decline, the fair value estimate under the income approach will decline. Additionally, changes in the broader economic environment could cause changes to our estimated discount rates, foreign currency exchange rates used to translate cash flows and comparable company valuation indicators, which may impact our estimated fair values.  

We have three other reporting units that have goodwill assigned to them. The fair value of each of these three reporting units is sufficiently in excess of its carrying value which leads us to believe only a significant, unforeseen event could cause impairment to any of these reporting units.  

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for information on how recent accounting pronouncements have affected or may affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

42 

Item 7A.