PART I 

Item 1.  

Business 

Overview 

Zimmer Biomet is a global leader in musculoskeletal healthcare. We design, manufacture and market orthopedic reconstructive products; sports medicine, biologics, extremities and trauma products; office based technologies; spine, craniomaxillofacial and thoracic products; dental implants; and related surgical products. We collaborate with healthcare professionals around the globe to advance the pace of innovation. Our products and solutions help treat patients suffering from disorders of, or injuries to, bones, joints or supporting soft tissues. Together with healthcare professionals, we help millions of people live better lives. In this report, “Zimmer Biomet,” “we,” “us,” “our,” “the Company” and similar words refer collectively to Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries. “Zimmer Biomet Holdings” refers to the parent company only.  

Zimmer Biomet Holdings was incorporated in Delaware in 2001. Our history dates to 1927, when Zimmer Manufacturing Company, a predecessor, was founded in Warsaw, Indiana. On August 6, 2001, we were spun off from our former parent and became an independent public company. In 2015, we acquired LVB Acquisition, Inc. (“LVB”), the parent company of Biomet, Inc. (“Biomet”), and LVB and Biomet became our wholly-owned subsidiaries (sometimes hereinafter referred to as the “Biomet merger” or the “merger”). In connection with the merger, we changed our name from Zimmer Holdings, Inc. to Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc. 

Customers, Sales and Marketing  

Our primary customers include orthopedic surgeons, neurosurgeons, oral surgeons, and other specialists, dentists, hospitals, stocking distributors, healthcare dealers and, in their capacity as agents, healthcare purchasing organizations or buying groups. These customers range from large multinational enterprises to independent clinicians and dentists.  

We market and sell products through three principal channels: 1) direct to healthcare institutions, such as hospitals, referred to as direct channel accounts; 2) through stocking distributors and healthcare dealers; and 3) directly to dental practices and dental laboratories. With direct channel accounts and some healthcare dealers, inventory is generally consigned to sales agents or customers. With sales to stocking distributors, some healthcare dealers, dental practices and dental laboratories, title to product passes upon shipment. Consignment sales represented approximately 80 percent of our net sales in 2019. No individual customer accounted for more than 1 percent of our net sales for 2019. 

We stock inventory in our warehouse facilities and retain title to consigned inventory in an effort to have sufficient quantities available when products are needed for surgical procedures. Safety stock levels are determined based on a number of factors, including demand, manufacturing lead times and quantities required to maintain service levels.  

We also carry trade accounts receivable balances based on credit terms that are generally consistent with local market practices. 

We utilize a network of sales associates, sales managers and support personnel, some of whom are employed or contracted by independent distributors and sales agencies. We invest a significant amount of time and expense in training sales associates in how to use specific products and how to best inform surgeons of product features and uses. Sales force representatives must have strong technical selling skills and medical education to provide technical support for surgeons. 

In response to the different healthcare systems throughout the world, our sales and marketing strategies and organizational structures differ by region. We utilize a global approach to sales force training, marketing and medical education to provide consistent, high quality service. Additionally, we keep current with key surgical developments and other issues related to orthopedic surgeons, neurosurgeons, other specialists, dentists and oral surgeons and the medical and dental procedures they perform.  

We allocate resources to achieve our operating profit goals through seven operating segments. Our operating segments are comprised of both geographic and product category business units. We are organized through a combination of geographic and product category operating segments for various reasons, including the distribution channels through which products are sold. Our product category operating segments generally have distribution channels focused specifically on those product categories, whereas our geographic operating segments have  

4 

distribution channels that sell multiple product categories. The following is a summary of our seven operating segments. See Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our segments. 

Americas. The Americas geographic operating segment is our largest operating segment. The U.S. accounts for 94 percent of net sales in this region. The U.S. sales force consists of a combination of employees and independent sales agents, most of whom sell products exclusively for Zimmer Biomet. The sales force in the U.S. receives a commission on product sales and is responsible for many operating decisions and costs.  

In this region, we contract with group purchasing organizations and managed care accounts and have promoted unit growth by offering volume discounts to customer healthcare institutions within a specified group. Generally, we are designated as one of several preferred purchasing sources for specified products, although members are not obligated to purchase our products. Contracts with group purchasing organizations generally have a term of three years, with extensions as warranted.  

In the Americas, we monitor and rank independent sales agents and our direct sales force across a range of performance metrics, including the achievement of sales targets and maintenance of efficient levels of working capital.  

EMEA. The EMEA geographic operating segment is our second largest operating segment. France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom collectively account for 55 percent of net sales in the region. This segment also includes other key markets, including Switzerland, Benelux, Nordic, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Our sales force in this segment is comprised of direct sales associates, commissioned agents, independent distributors and sales support personnel. We emphasize the advantages of our clinically proven, established designs and innovative solutions and new and enhanced materials and surfaces. In most European countries, healthcare is sponsored by the government and therefore government budgets impact healthcare spending, which can affect our sales in this segment.  

Asia Pacific. The Asia Pacific geographic operating segment includes key markets such as Japan, China, Australia, New Zealand, Korea, Taiwan, India, Thailand, Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia. Japan is the largest market within this segment, accounting for 47 percent of the region’s sales. In Japan and most countries in the Asia Pacific region, we maintain a network of dealers, who act as order agents on behalf of hospitals in the region, and sales associates, who build and maintain relationships with orthopedic surgeons and neurosurgeons in their markets. The knowledge and skills of these sales associates play a critical role in providing service, product information and support to surgeons.  

Spine, less Asia Pacific (“Spine”). The Spine product category operating segment includes all spine product results except those in Asia Pacific. The U.S. accounts for the majority of sales in this operating segment. The market dynamics of the Spine business are similar to those described in the geographic operating segments. However, our Spine business maintains a separate sales force of employees and independent sales agents.  

Office Based Technologies. Our Office Based Technologies product category operating segment only sells to U.S. customers. In this product category, we market our products to doctors who prescribe them for use by patients. The products are mostly provided directly by Zimmer Biomet to patients and are paid for through patients’ insurance or by patients themselves. Products are also sold through wholesale channels on a limited basis. 

Craniomaxillofacial and Thoracic (“CMF”). Our CMF product category operating segment competes across the world through a combination of direct and independent sales agents. The U.S. accounts for the majority of sales in this operating segment. The U.S. sales force consists of a combination of employees and independent sales agents. Internationally, our primary customers are independent stocking distributors who market our products to their customers.  

Dental. Our Dental product category operating segment competes across the world. Our sales force is primarily composed of employees who market our products to customers. We sell directly to dental practices or dental laboratories, or to independent stocking distributors depending on the market.  

Seasonality 

Our business is seasonal in nature to some extent, as many of our products are used in elective procedures, which typically decline during the summer months and can increase at the end of the year once annual deductibles have been met on health insurance plans. Additionally, with sales to customers where title to product passes upon  

5 

shipment, these customers may purchase items in large quantities if incentives are offered or if there are new product offerings in a market, which could cause period-to-period differences in sales.  

Distribution 

We distribute our products both through large, centralized warehouses and through smaller, market specific facilities, depending on the needs of the market. We maintain large, centralized warehouses in the U.S. and Europe to be able to efficiently distribute our products to customers in those regions. In addition to these centralized warehouses, we maintain smaller distribution facilities in the U.S. and in each of the countries where we have a direct sales presence. In many locations, our inventory is consigned to the healthcare institution. 

We generally ship our orders via expedited courier. Since most of our sales occur at the time of an elective procedure, we generally do not have firm orders. 

Products 

Our products include orthopedic reconstructive products; sports medicine, biologics, extremities and trauma products; office based technologies; spine and CMF products; dental implants; and related surgical products.  

Knees  

Total knee replacement surgeries typically include a femoral component, a patella (knee cap), a tibial tray and an articular surface (placed on the tibial tray). Knee replacement surgeries include first-time, or primary, joint replacement procedures and revision procedures for the replacement, repair or enhancement of an implant or component from a previous procedure. There are also procedures for partial reconstruction of the knee, which treat limited knee degeneration and involve the replacement of only one side, or compartment, of the knee with a unicompartmental knee prosthesis. A developing trend in knee replacement surgeries is the use of robotic technologies to assist a surgeon with implant positioning. In 2019, we entered the robotic assistance market with our ROSA® Knee System. In the future, we plan to expand the use of our ROSA® Robot to other product categories.  

Our significant knee brands include the following:  

•  

Persona® The Personalized Knee System 

•  

NexGen® Complete Knee Solution  

•  

Vanguard® Knee  

•  

Oxford® Partial Knee 

Hips  

Total hip replacement surgeries replace both the head of the femur and the socket portion of the pelvis (acetabulum) of the natural hip. Hip procedures include first-time, or primary, joint replacement as well as revision procedures. Hip implant procedures involve the use of bone cement to attach or affix the prosthetic components to the surrounding bone, or are press-fit into bone, which means that they have a surface that bone affixes to through either ongrowth or ingrowth technologies.  

Our significant hip brands include the following:  

•  

Taperloc® Hip System 

•  

Zimmer® M/L Taper Hip Prosthesis 

•  

Arcos® Modular Hip System 

•  

Continuum® Acetabular System 

•  

G7® Acetabular System 

6 

S.E.T. 

Our S.E.T. product category includes surgical, sports medicine, biologics, foot and ankle, extremities and trauma products. Our surgical products are used to support various surgical procedures. Our sports medicine products are primarily for the repair of soft tissue injuries, most commonly used in the knee and shoulder. Our biologics products are used as early intervention for joint preservation or to support surgical procedures. Our foot and ankle and extremities products are designed to treat arthritic conditions and fractures in the foot, ankle, shoulder, elbow and wrist. Our trauma products are used to stabilize damaged or broken bones and their surrounding tissues to support the body’s natural healing process.  

Our significant S.E.T. brands include the following:  

•  

A.T.S.® Tourniquet Systems 

•  

JuggerKnot® Soft Anchor System 

•  

Gel-One®1 Cross-linked Hyaluronate 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

•  

Comprehensive® Shoulder 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

•  

A.L.P.S.® Plating System 

SPINE and CMF  

Our spine products division designs, manufactures and distributes medical devices and surgical instruments to deliver comprehensive solutions for individuals with back or neck pain caused by degenerative conditions, deformities or traumatic injury of the spine. Our CMF division includes face and skull reconstruction products as well as products that fixate and stabilize the bones of the chest in order to facilitate healing or reconstruction after open heart surgery, trauma or for deformities of the chest. 

Our significant spine and CMF brands include the following:  

•  

Polaris™ Spinal System 

•  

Mobi-C® Cervical Disc 

•  

SternaLock® Blu Closure System  

•  

SternaLock® Rigid Sternal Fixation 

DENTAL  

Our dental products division manufactures and/or distributes: 1) dental reconstructive implants – for individuals who are totally without teeth or are missing one or more teeth; 2) dental prosthetic products – aimed at providing a more natural restoration to resemble the original teeth; and 3) dental regenerative products – for soft tissue and bone rehabilitation. 

Our significant dental brands include the following:  

•  

Tapered Screw-Vent® Implant System 

•  

3i T3® Implant 

1   

 Registered trademark of Seikagaku Corporation 

7 

OTHER 

Our other product category primarily includes our bone cement and office based technology products.  

Research and Development 

We have extensive research and development activities to develop new surgical techniques, including robotic techniques, materials, biologics and product designs. The research and development teams work closely with our strategic brand marketing function. The rapid commercialization of innovative new materials, biologics products, implant and instrument designs and surgical techniques remains one of our core strategies and continues to be an important driver of sales growth. 

We are broadening our offerings in certain of our product categories and exploring new technologies with possible applications in multiple areas. Our primary research and development facility is located in Warsaw, Indiana. We have other research and development personnel based in, among other places, Canada, China, France, Switzerland and other U.S. locations. As of December 31, 2019, we employed approximately 2,100 research and development employees worldwide. 

We expect to continue to identify innovative technologies, which may include acquiring complementary products or businesses, establishing technology licensing arrangements or strategic alliances.  

Government Regulation and Compliance 

Our operations, products and customers are subject to extensive government regulation by numerous government agencies, both within and outside the U.S. Our global regulatory environment is increasingly stringent, unpredictable and complex. There is a global trend toward increased regulatory activity related to medical products. 

In the U.S., numerous laws and regulations govern all the processes by which our products are brought to market. These include, among others, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”) and regulations issued or promulgated thereunder. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) has enacted regulations that control all aspects of the development, manufacture, advertising, promotion and postmarket surveillance of medical products, including medical devices. In addition, the FDA controls the access of products to market through processes designed to ensure that only products that are safe and effective are made available to the public. 

Most of our new products fall into an FDA medical device classification that requires the submission of a Premarket Notification (510(k)) to the FDA. This process requires us to demonstrate that the device to be marketed is at least as safe and effective as, that is, substantially equivalent to, a legally marketed device. We must submit information that supports our substantial equivalency claims. Before we can market the new device, we must receive an order from the FDA finding substantial equivalence and clearing the new device for commercial distribution in the U.S.  

Other devices we develop and market are in a category (class) for which the FDA has implemented stringent clinical investigation and Premarket Approval (“PMA”) requirements. The PMA process requires us to provide clinical and laboratory data that establishes that the new medical device is safe and effective. The FDA will approve the new device for commercial distribution if it determines that the data and information in the PMA application constitute valid scientific evidence and that there is reasonable assurance that the device is safe and effective for its intended use(s).  

All of our devices marketed in the U.S. have been cleared or approved by the FDA, with the exception of some devices which are classified by FDA regulation as exempt from premarket clearance and approval or were in commercial distribution prior to May 28, 1976.  

Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations. The FDA reviews design and manufacturing practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers’ required reports of adverse experiences and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. We are also subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with its Quality System Regulation (21 CFR Part 820) (“QSR”), among other FDA requirements, such as requirements for advertising and promotion of our devices. Our manufacturing operations, and those of our third-party manufacturers, are required to comply with the QSR, which addresses a company’s responsibility for product design, testing and manufacturing quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. The QSR requires that each manufacturer establish a quality system by which the manufacturer monitors the manufacturing process and maintains records that show compliance with FDA regulations and the manufacturer’s written specifications and procedures relating to the devices. QSR  

8 

compliance is necessary to receive and maintain FDA clearance or approval to market new and existing products and is also necessary for distributing in the U.S. certain devices exempt from FDA clearance and approval requirements. The FDA conducts announced and unannounced periodic and on-going inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with the QSR. If in connection with these inspections the FDA believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures, it may issue inspectional observations on Form FDA-483 (“Form 483”) that would necessitate prompt corrective action. If FDA inspectional observations are not addressed and/or corrective action is not taken in a timely manner and to the FDA’s satisfaction, the FDA may issue a warning letter (which would similarly necessitate prompt corrective action) and/or proceed directly to other forms of enforcement action, including the imposition of operating restrictions, including a ceasing of operations, on one or more facilities, enjoining and restraining certain violations of applicable law pertaining to products, seizure of products, and assessing civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. The FDA could also issue a corporate warning letter or a recidivist warning letter or negotiate the entry of a consent decree of permanent injunction with us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”). Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For information regarding certain warning letters and Form 483 inspectional observations that we are addressing, see Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements. 

The FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”), administers controls over the import of medical devices into the U.S. and can prevent the importation of products the FDA deems to violate the FDCA or its implementing regulations. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of our products, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. We are also subject to foreign trade controls administered by certain U.S. government agencies, including the Bureau of Industry and Security within the Commerce Department and the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Treasury Department (“OFAC”). In addition, exported medical products are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country to which the medical product is exported. 

There are also requirements of state and local governments that we must comply with in the manufacture and marketing of our products. 

In many of the countries in which our products are sold, we are subject to supranational, national, regional and local regulations affecting, among other things, the development, design, manufacturing, product standards, packaging, advertising, promotion, labeling, marketing and postmarket surveillance of medical products, including medical devices. The member countries of the European Union (the “EU”) have adopted the European Medical Device Directive (the “MDD”), which creates a single set of medical device regulations for products marketed in all member countries. Compliance with the MDD and certification to a quality system (e.g., ISO 13485 certification) enable the manufacturer to place a CE mark on its products. To obtain authorization to affix the CE mark to a product, a recognized European Notified Body must assess a manufacturer’s quality system and the product’s conformity to the requirements of the MDD. We are subject to inspection by the Notified Bodies for compliance with these requirements. In May 2017, a new EU Medical Device Regulation (“MDR”) was published that will replace the MDD and will impose significant additional premarket and postmarket requirements beginning in May 2020. Under a corrigendum to the MDR finalized in December 2019, some low-risk medical devices being up-classified as a result of the MDR, including low-risk instruments, may now receive a four-year transitional period to comply. 

Our quality management system is based upon the requirements of ISO 13485, the QSR, the MDD and other applicable regulations for the markets in which we sell. Our principal manufacturing sites are certified to ISO 13485 and audited at regular intervals. Additionally, our principal sites are certified under the Medical Device Single Audit Program (“MDSAP”), which is a voluntary audit program developed by regulatory authorities in five countries (i.e., Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, and the United States) to assess compliance with the quality management system regulatory requirements of those countries. MDSAP audits are conducted by an MDSAP-recognized auditing organization and can fulfill the needs of the participating regulatory jurisdictions, replacing standard surveillance audits by the regulatory authorities in those countries. 

Further, we are subject to other supranational, national, regional, federal, state and local laws concerning healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims and anti-kickback laws, as well as the U.S. Physician Payments Sunshine Act and similar state and foreign healthcare professional payment transparency laws. These laws are administered by, among others, the DOJ, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG-HHS”), state attorneys general and various foreign government agencies. Many of these agencies have increased their enforcement activities with respect to medical products manufacturers in recent years. Violations of  

9 

these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the U.S., exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs.  

Our operations in foreign countries are subject to the extraterritorial application of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). Our global operations are also subject to foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the United Kingdom (“UK”) Bribery Act, among others. As part of our global compliance program, we seek to address anti-corruption risks proactively. On January 12, 2017, we resolved previously-disclosed FCPA matters involving Biomet and certain of its subsidiaries. As part of that settlement, we entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (“DPA”) with the DOJ. For information regarding the DPA, see Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Our facilities and operations are also subject to complex federal, state, local and foreign environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations, including those relating to discharges of substances in the air, water and land, the handling, storage and disposal of wastes and the clean-up of properties contaminated by pollutants. We do not expect that the ongoing costs of compliance with these environmental requirements will have a material impact on our consolidated earnings, capital expenditures or competitive position. 

In addition, we are subject to federal, state and international data privacy and security laws and regulations that govern the collection, use, disclosure, transfer, storage, disposal and protection of health-related and other personal information. The FDA has issued guidance to which we may be subject concerning data security for medical devices. The FDA and the Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”) have issued urgent safety communications regarding cybersecurity vulnerabilities of certain medical devices.  

In addition, certain of our affiliates are subject to privacy, security and breach notification regulations promulgated under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (collectively, “HIPAA”). HIPAA governs the use, disclosure, and security of protected health information by HIPAA “covered entities” and their “business associates.” Covered entities are health plans, health care clearinghouses and health care providers that engage in specific types of electronic transactions. A business associate is any person or entity (other than members of a covered entity’s workforce) that performs a service on behalf of a covered entity involving the use or disclosure of protected health information. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) (through the Office for Civil Rights) has direct enforcement authority against covered entities and business associates with regard to compliance with HIPAA regulations. On December 12, 2018, the Office for Civil Rights of HHS issued a request for information seeking input from the public on how the HIPAA regulations could be modified to amend existing obligations relating to the processing of protected health information. We will monitor this process and assess the impact of changes to the HIPAA regulations to our business. 

In addition to the FDA guidance and HIPAA regulations described above, a number of U.S. states have also enacted data privacy and security laws and regulations that govern the collection, use, disclosure, transfer, storage, disposal and protection of personal information, such as social security numbers, medical and financial information and other information. These laws and regulations may be more restrictive and not preempted by U.S. federal laws. For example, several U.S. territories and all 50 states now have data breach laws that require timely notification to individuals, and at times regulators, the media or credit reporting agencies, if a company has experienced the unauthorized access or acquisition of personal information. Other state laws include the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which was signed into law on June 28, 2018 and largely took effect on January 1, 2020. The CCPA, among other things, contains new disclosure obligations for businesses that collect personal information about California residents and affords those individuals numerous rights relating to their personal information that may affect our ability to use personal information or share it with our business partners. Regulations from the California Attorney General have not been finalized, and it is expected that additional amendments to the CCPA will be introduced. Meanwhile, a number of other states have considered privacy laws like the CCPA, and in October 2019, Nevada enacted a similar but generally less restrictive privacy law. We will continue to monitor and assess the impact of these state laws, which may impose substantial penalties for violations, impose significant costs for investigation and compliance, allow private class-action litigation, and carry significant potential liability for our business. 

Outside of the U.S., data protection laws, including the EU General Data Protection Regulation (the “GDPR”) and member state implementing legislation, and the Brazil Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados (the “LGPD”), also apply to some of our operations in the countries in which we provide services to our customers. Legal requirements in these countries relating to the collection, storage, processing and transfer of personal data continue to evolve. The GDPR, which became effective on May 25, 2018, imposes, among other things, data protection requirements that include  

10 

strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze and transfer EU personal data, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches to data subjects and supervisory authorities in certain circumstances, and possible substantial fines for any violations (including possible fines for certain violations of up to the greater of 20 million Euros or 4% of total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year). 

Failure to comply with U.S. and international data protection laws and regulations could result in government enforcement actions (which could include civil and/or criminal penalties), private litigation and/or adverse publicity and could negatively affect our operating results and business. 

Competition 

The orthopedics and broader musculoskeletal care industry is highly competitive. In the global markets for our knees, hips, and S.E.T. products, our major competitors include the DePuy Synthes Companies of Johnson & Johnson, Stryker Corporation and Smith & Nephew plc. There are smaller competitors in these product categories as well who have success by focusing on smaller subsegments of the industry.  

In the spine and CMF categories, we compete globally primarily with the spinal and biologic business of Medtronic plc, the DePuy Synthes Companies, Stryker Corporation, NuVasive, Inc. and Globus Medical, Inc. 

In the dental implant category, we compete primarily with The Straumann Group, Dentsply Sirona Inc. and Nobel Biocare Services AG (part of Envista Holdings Corporation). 

Competition within the industry is primarily based on technology, innovation, quality, reputation, customer service and pricing. A key factor in our continuing success in the future will be our ability to develop new products and technologies and improve existing products and technologies.  

Manufacturing and Raw Materials 

We manufacture our products at various sites. We also strategically outsource some manufacturing to qualified suppliers who are highly capable of producing components.  

The manufacturing operations at our facilities are designed to incorporate the cellular concept for production and to implement tenets of a manufacturing philosophy focused on continuous improvement efforts in product quality, lead time reduction and capacity optimization. Our continuous improvement efforts are driven by Lean and Six Sigma methodologies. In addition, at certain of our manufacturing facilities, many of the employees are cross-trained to perform a broad array of operations. 

We generally target operating our manufacturing facilities at optimal levels of total capacity. We continually evaluate the potential to in‑source and outsource production as part of our manufacturing strategy to provide value to our stakeholders.  

In most of our manufacturing network, we have improved our manufacturing processes to harmonize and optimize our quality systems and to protect our profitability and offset the impact of inflationary costs. We have, for example, employed computer-assisted robots and multi-axis grinders to precision polish medical devices; automated certain manufacturing and inspection processes, including on-machine inspection and process controls; purchased state-of-the-art equipment; in-sourced core products and processes; and negotiated cost reductions from third-party suppliers.  

We use a diverse and broad range of raw materials in the manufacturing of our products. We purchase all of our raw materials and select components used in manufacturing our products from external suppliers. In addition, we purchase some supplies from single sources for reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, cost effectiveness or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. We work closely with our suppliers to assure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. To date, we have not experienced any significant difficulty in locating and obtaining the materials necessary to fulfill our production schedules. 

Intellectual Property  

Patents and other proprietary rights are important to the continued success of our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. We protect our proprietary rights through a variety of methods, including confidentiality agreements and proprietary information agreements with suppliers, employees, consultants and others who may have access to proprietary information. We own or control through licensing arrangements over 9,000 issued  

11 

patents and patent applications throughout the world that relate to aspects of the technology incorporated in many of our products. 

Employees  

As of December 31, 2019, we employed approximately 19,900 employees worldwide, including approximately 2,100 employees dedicated to research and development. Approximately 9,500 employees are located within the U.S. and approximately 10,400 employees are located outside of the U.S., primarily throughout Europe and in Japan. We have approximately 8,600 employees dedicated to manufacturing our products worldwide. The Warsaw, Indiana production facilities employ approximately 3,100 employees in the aggregate.  

We have production employees represented by a labor union in Dover, Ohio and Bridgend, South Wales. We have other employees in Europe who are represented by Works Councils. We believe that our relationship with our employees is satisfactory. 

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS  

The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive officers as of February 14, 2020.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Mr. Hanson was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors in December 2017. Previously, Mr. Hanson served as Executive Vice President and President, Minimally Invasive Therapies Group of Medtronic plc from January 2015 until joining Zimmer Biomet. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and Group President, Covidien of Covidien plc from October 2014 to January 2015; Senior Vice President and Group President, Medical Devices and United States of Covidien from October 2013 to September 2014; Senior Vice President and Group President of Covidien for the Surgical Solutions business from July 2011 to October 2013; and President of Covidien’s Energy-based Devices business from July 2006 to June 2011. Mr. Hanson held several other positions of increasing responsibility in sales, marketing and general management with Covidien from October 1992 to July 2006. 

Mr. Deltort was appointed President, Europe, Middle East and Africa in August 2018. He is responsible for the marketing, sales and distribution of products, services and solutions in the European, Middle Eastern and African (“EMEA”) regions. Prior to joining Zimmer Biomet, Mr. Deltort served as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Global Healthcare Solutions and Partnerships of Boston Scientific Corporation, based in France from May 2016 until August 2018. Before joining Boston Scientific Corporation, he spent 14 years with GE Healthcare in positions of increasing responsibility in Germany, Finland, Dubai and the United States, most recently serving as Global Senior Vice President and General Manager of the global Monitoring Solutions business as well as Managing Director of GE Healthcare Finland. Prior to GE, Mr. Deltort served at Philips, Hewlett-Packard and Marquette Electronics in various international healthcare executive roles. 

Ms. Nichol was appointed Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in October 2019. Prior to joining Zimmer Biomet, Ms. Nichol served as Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Endo International plc (“Endo International”) from April 2018 to September 2019. Ms. Nichol joined Endo International in March 2015 as Director of Consolidations and Financial Systems and was promoted to Assistant Controller in September 2015. Prior to her tenure at Endo International, Ms. Nichol served as Senior Vice President and Controller of Haas Group Inc. (now part of Wesco Aircraft Holdings, Inc.), where she led the global accounting and finance teams from June 2011 until March 2015. Prior to her employment with Haas Group Inc., Ms. Nichol was with IKON Office Solutions (now part of Ricoh Company, Ltd.) for a total of five years from June 2008 until June 2011 and from June 2003 until July 2005, having served most recently as the Director of Financial Reporting and Corporate Accounting with responsibility for all public filings and technical and corporate accounting. From December 2005 until June 2008, Ms. Nichol was with Advanced Metallurgical Group NV serving as Assistant Controller. Ms. Nichol began her career in public accounting with KPMG. 

12 

Mr. Phipps was appointed Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in May 2007. He has global responsibility for the Company’s Legal Affairs and he serves as Secretary to the Board of Directors. Mr. Phipps also oversees the Company’s Government Affairs activities. Previously, Mr. Phipps served as Associate General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from December 2005 to May 2007. He joined the Company in September 2003 as Associate Counsel and Assistant Secretary. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Vice President and General Counsel of L&N Sales and Marketing, Inc. in Pennsylvania and he practiced law with the firm of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius in Philadelphia, focusing on corporate and securities law, mergers and acquisitions and financial transactions. 

Mr. Tornos joined Zimmer Biomet in November 2018 as Group President, Orthopedics, and in December 2019 was appointed Group President, Global Businesses and Americas. Prior to joining Zimmer Biomet, Mr. Tornos served as Worldwide President of the Global Urology, Medical and Critical Care Divisions of Becton, Dickinson and Company (“BD”) (and previously, C. R. Bard, Inc. (“Bard”)) from June 2017 until October 2018. From June 2017 until BD’s acquisition of Bard in December 2017, Mr. Tornos also continued to serve as President, EMEA of Bard, a position to which he was appointed in September 2013. Mr. Tornos joined Bard in August 2011 and, prior to his appointment as President, EMEA, served as Vice President and General Manager with leadership responsibility for Bard’s business in Southern Europe, Central Europe and the Emerging Markets Region of the Middle East and Africa. Before joining Bard, Mr. Tornos served as Vice President and General Manager of the Americas Pharmaceutical and Medical/Imaging Segments of Covidien International from April 2009 to August 2011. Before that, he served as International Vice President, Business Development and Strategy with Baxter International Inc. from July 2008 to April 2009 and, prior to that, Mr. Tornos spent 11 years with Johnson & Johnson in positions of increasing responsibility. 

Mr. Upadhyay was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2019. Prior to joining Zimmer Biomet, Mr. Upadhyay served as Senior Vice President, Global Financial Operations at Bristol-Myers Squibb from November 2016 until June 2019. Before joining Bristol-Myers Squibb, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Endo International from September 2013 to November 2016. Prior to his tenure at Endo International, Mr. Upadhyay served as Interim Chief Financial Officer as well as Senior Vice President of Finance, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer of BD. Prior to his role as BD’s Interim Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Controller, Mr. Upadhyay was the Senior Vice President of Global Financial Planning and Analysis and also held the role of Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of BD’s international business. Before joining BD in 2010, Mr. Upadhyay held a number of leadership roles across AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson. Mr. Upadhyay spent the early part of his career in public accounting with KPMG. 

Mr. Yi was appointed President, Asia Pacific in June 2015. He is responsible for the sales, marketing and distribution of products, services and solutions in the Asia Pacific region. Mr. Yi joined the Company in March 2013 as Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific. Previously, he served as Vice President and General Manager of St. Jude Medical for Asia Pacific and Australia from 2005 to 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Yi held several leadership positions over a ten-year period with Boston Scientific Corporation, ultimately serving as Vice President for North Asia. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION  

Our Internet address is www.zimmerbiomet.com. We routinely post important information for investors on our website in the “Investor Relations” section, which may be accessed from our homepage at www.zimmerbiomet.com or directly at https://investor.zimmerbiomet.com. We use this website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations section of our website, in addition to following our press releases, Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings, public conference calls, presentations and webcasts. Our goal is to maintain the Investor Relations website as a portal through which investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us, free of charge, including:  

•  

our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with or furnish it to the SEC;  

•  

announcements of investor conferences and events at which our executives talk about our products and competitive strategies, as well as archives of these events;  

13 

•  

press releases on quarterly earnings, product announcements, legal developments and other material news that we may post from time to time;  

•  

corporate governance information including our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers, information concerning our Board of Directors and its committees, including the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation and Management Development Committee, Corporate Governance Committee and Quality, Regulatory and Technology Committee, and other governance-related policies;  

•  

stockholder services information, including ways to contact our transfer agent and information on how to sign up for direct deposit of dividends or enroll in our dividend reinvestment plan; and 

•  

opportunities to sign up for email alerts and RSS feeds to have information provided in real time.  

The information available on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or a part of, this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. 

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors