xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?               

   0000849399 false        0000849399   2022-01-27 2022-01-27    iso4217:USD   xbrli:shares     iso4217:USD   xbrli:shares       

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 27, 2022 

NortonLifeLock Inc. 

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (650) 527-8000 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: 

¨ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) 

¨ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) 

¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) 

¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§ 230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter). 

Emerging growth company ¨ 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨ 

Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure. 

On January 27, 2022, NortonLifeLock Inc. (the “Company”), in connection with the previously announced syndication of its Term Loan B by lenders under the Interim Facilities Agreement, in consultation with the lenders, prepared a lender presentation. A copy of the lender presentation is furnished as Exhibits 99.01 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. 

The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K under this Item 7.01 (including Exhibit 99.01), is being furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and shall not be deemed “filed” for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing made by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by a specific reference in such filing. 

Forward-Looking Statements  

This Current Report on Form 8-K (including information incorporated herein by reference) contains certain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as “anticipate”, “target”, “expect”, “estimate”, “intend”, “plan”, “goal”, “believe”, “aim”, “will”, “may”, “would”, “could” or “should” or other words of similar meaning or the negative thereof. Forward-looking statements include statements relating to the following: (i) future capital expenditures, expenses, revenues, economic performance, financial conditions, dividend policy, losses and future prospects of the combined group of the Company and Avast plc (“Avast”) (the Combined Company); (ii) business and management strategies and the expansion and growth of the operations of the Combined Company; (iii) the effects of government regulation on the business of the Combined Company and (iv) the time frame and the expected benefits of the previously-announced merger with Avast (the “Merger”) to the Company, Avast, and their respective customers, stockholders and investors, including expected growth, earnings accretion and cost savings. There are many factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the possibility that the Merger will not be completed on a timely basis or at all, whether due to the failure to satisfy the conditions of the Merger (including approvals or clearances from regulatory and other agencies and bodies) or otherwise, general business and economic conditions globally, industry trends, competition, changes in government and other regulation, changes in political and economic stability, disruptions in business operations due to reorganization activities, interest rate and currency fluctuations, the inability of the Combined Company to realize successfully any anticipated synergy benefits when (and if) the Merger is implemented, the inability of the combined entity to integrate successfully the Company’s and Avast’s operations when (and if) the Merger is implemented, fluctuations and volatility in the Company’s stock price, the ability of the Company to successfully execute strategic plans, the ability of the Company to maintain customer and partner relationships, the timing and market acceptance of new product releases and upgrades, matters arising out of the ongoing SEC investigation and the combined entity incurring and/or experiencing unanticipated costs and/or delays or difficulties relating to the Merger when (and if) it is implemented. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Risk Factors sections of the Company’s most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, the contents of which are not incorporated by reference into, nor do they form part of, this Current Report on Form 8-K. 

These forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding the present and future business strategies of such persons and the environment in which each will operate in the future. By their nature, these forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, as well as uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future. The factors described in the context of such forward-looking statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of any such person, or industry results and developments, to be materially different from any results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. No assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct and persons reading this Current Report on Form 8-K are therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as at the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K. All subsequent oral or written forward-looking statements attributable to the Company, Avast or any persons acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statement above. The Company does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required by applicable law, regulation or stock exchange rules. 

2 

 Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. 

(d) Exhibits 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

3 

SIGNATURE 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

4