8-K   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C. 20549  

FORM 8-K  

CURRENT REPORT  

PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)  

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  

January 7, 2015  

CITRIX SYSTEMS, INC.  

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

851 West Cypress Creek Road 

Fort Lauderdale, Florida   33309 

 (Address of Principal Executive Offices)   (Zip Code)  

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (954) 267-3000  

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2.):  

 ¨ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

 ¨ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

 ¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))  

 ¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))  

Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.  

On January 7, 2015, Citrix Systems, Inc. (the “Company”) entered into a credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and the other lenders party thereto from time to time (collectively, the “Lenders”). The Credit Agreement provides for a $250 million unsecured revolving credit facility for a term of five years. The Company may elect to increase the revolving credit facility by up to $250 million if existing or new lenders provide additional revolving commitments in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement. The proceeds of borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement will bear interest at a rate equal to either (a) a customary London interbank offered rate formula or (b) a customary base rate formula, plus the applicable margin with respect thereto, in each case as set forth in the Credit Agreement.  

The Credit Agreement requires the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of not more than 3.5:1.0 and a consolidated interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.0:1.0. The Credit Agreement includes customary events of default, with corresponding grace periods in certain circumstances, including, without limitation, payment defaults, cross-defaults, the occurrence of a change of control of the Company and bankruptcy-related defaults. The Lenders are entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of the events of default. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the Company to grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change its business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties.  

Certain Lenders and/or their affiliates have provided and may continue to provide commercial banking, investment management and other services to the Company, its affiliates and employees, for which they receive customary fees and commissions.  

The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Credit Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.  

The information set forth above under Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference.  

Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.  

(d) Exhibits.  

  Exhibit

No.    Description 

 10.1   Credit Agreement, dated as of January 7, 2015, by and among Citrix Systems, Inc., the initial lenders named therein and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Exhibit Index  

  Exhibit

No.    Description 

 10.1   Credit Agreement, dated as of January 7, 2015, by and among Citrix Systems, Inc., the initial lenders named therein and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.