Exhibit 99.1 Earnings release 12/31/14   

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

KLA-TENCOR REPORTS FISCAL 2015 SECOND QUARTER RESULTS

MILPITAS, Calif., January 22, 2015 - KLA-Tencor Corporation (NASDAQ: KLAC) today announced operating results for its second quarter of fiscal year 2015, which ended on December 31, 2014, and reported GAAP net income of $20 million and GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.12 on revenues of $676 million. 

“We are pleased with the Company’s performance in the second quarter,” commented Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer of KLA-Tencor. “Continued market leadership and good execution led to revenue growth and strong gross margins in the period.”

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A reconciliation between GAAP operating results and non-GAAP operating results is provided following the financial statements that are part of this release. Non-GAAP results include the impact of stock-based compensation, but exclude the impact of acquisitions, restructuring, severance and other charges and debt extinguishment loss and recapitalization charges.

KLA-Tencor will discuss the results for its fiscal year 2015 second quarter, along with its outlook, on a conference call today beginning at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Standard Time. A webcast of the call will be available at: www.kla-tencor.com.

Forward-Looking Statements: Statements in this press release other than historical facts, such as statements regarding KLA-Tencor’s ability to benefit from its market leadership position, are forward-looking statements, and are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations, and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors, including but not limited to: the demand for semiconductors; the financial condition of the global capital markets and the general macroeconomic environment; new and enhanced product and technology offerings by competitors; cancellation of orders by customers; the ability of KLA-Tencor’s research and development teams to successfully innovate and develop technologies and products that are responsive to customer demands; KLA-Tencor’s ability to successfully manage its costs; market acceptance of the company’s existing and newly issued products; and changing customer demands. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected and anticipated in forward-looking statements in this release, please refer to KLA-Tencor’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2014, subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including, but not limited to, the risk factors described therein). KLA-Tencor assumes no obligation to, and does not currently intend to, update these forward-looking statements.

1

About KLA-Tencor:

KLA-Tencor Corporation (NASDAQ: KLAC), a leading provider of process control and yield management solutions, partners with customers around the world to develop state-of-the-art inspection and metrology technologies. These technologies serve the semiconductor, LED and other related nanoelectronics industries. With a portfolio of industry-standard products and a team of world-class engineers and scientists, the company has created superior solutions for its customers for more than 35 years. Headquartered in Milpitas, California, KLA-Tencor has dedicated customer operations and service centers around the world. Additional information may be found at www.kla-tencor.com. (KLAC-F)

Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information: 

The non-GAAP and supplemental information provided in this press release is a supplement to, and not a substitute for, KLA-Tencor’s financial results presented in accordance with United States GAAP.

To supplement KLA-Tencor’s condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, the company provides certain non-GAAP financial information, which is adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain costs and expenses, as well as other supplemental information. The non-GAAP and supplemental information is provided to enhance the user’s overall understanding of KLA-Tencor’s operating performance and its prospects in the future. Specifically, KLA-Tencor believes that the non-GAAP information provides useful measures to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to KLA-Tencor’s financial performance by excluding certain costs and expenses that the company believes are not indicative of its core operating results. The non-GAAP information is among the budgeting and planning tools that management uses for future forecasting. However, because there are no standardized or generally accepted definitions for most non-GAAP financial metrics, definitions of non-GAAP financial metrics (for example, determining which costs and expenses to exclude when calculating such a metric) are inherently subject to significant discretion. As a result, non-GAAP financial metrics may be defined very differently from company to company, or even from period to period within the same company, which can potentially limit the usefulness of such information to an investor. The presentation of non-GAAP and supplemental information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared and presented in accordance with United States GAAP.

2

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

4

KLA-Tencor Corporation 

Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Cash Flows 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5

KLA-Tencor Corporation

Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Supplemental Information

(In thousands, except per share data)

Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Pre-tax impact of items included in Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6

To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, we provide certain non-GAAP financial information, which is adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain costs and expenses, as well as other supplemental information. The non-GAAP and supplemental information is provided to enhance the user’s overall understanding of our operating performance and our prospects in the future. Specifically, we believe that the non-GAAP information provides useful measures to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial performance by excluding certain costs and expenses that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results. The non-GAAP information is among the budgeting and planning tools that management uses for future forecasting. However, because there are no standardized or generally accepted definitions for most non-GAAP financial metrics, definitions of non-GAAP financial metrics (for example, determining which costs and expenses to exclude when calculating such a metric) are inherently subject to significant discretion. As a result, non-GAAP financial metrics may be defined very differently from company to company, or even from period to period within the same company, which can potentially limit the usefulness of such information to an investor. The presentation of non-GAAP and supplemental information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared and presented in accordance with United States GAAP.

a.Acquisition related charges includes amortization of intangible assets associated with acquisitions. Management believes that the expense associated with the amortization of acquisition related intangible assets are appropriate to be excluded because a significant portion of the purchase price for acquisitions may be allocated to intangible assets that have short lives, and exclusion of these expenses allows comparisons of operating results that are consistent over time for both KLA-Tencor’s newly acquired and long-held businesses. Management believes excluding these items helps investors compare our operating performance with our results in prior periods as well as with the performance of other companies.

b.Restructuring, severance and other related charges include costs associated with employee severance and other exit costs. Management believes excluding these items helps investors compare our operating performance with our results in prior periods as well as with the performance of other companies.

c.Debt extinguishment loss and recapitalization charges include a pre-tax loss on early extinguishment of debt related to the 6.900% Senior Notes due in 2018, net and certain other expenses incurred in connection with the leveraged recapitalization plan which was completed in the second quarter of fiscal year ending June 30, 2015. Management believes that it is appropriate to exclude these items as they are not indicative of ongoing operating results and therefore limit comparability and excluding these items helps investors compare our operating performance with our results in prior periods as well as with the performance of other companies.

d.Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments includes the income tax effects of the excluded items noted above. Management believes that it is appropriate to exclude the tax effects of the items noted above in order to present a more meaningful measure of non-GAAP net income. 

7