EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

November 21, 2014  

Mr. John Gargani  

Southwestern Energy Company  

Suite 125  

2350 North Sam Houston Parkway East  

Houston, Texas 77032  

Dear Mr. Gargani:  

In accordance with your request, we have audited the estimates prepared by Southwestern Energy Company (Southwestern), as of June 30, 2014, of the proved reserves and future revenue to the Potential Acquisition interest in certain oil and gas properties located in Pennsylvania and West Virginia. It is our understanding that Southwestern is considering purchasing this interest in these properties. We have examined the estimates with respect to reserves quantities, reserves categorization, future producing rates, future net revenue, and the present value of such future net revenue, using the definitions set forth in U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Regulation S-X Rule 4-10(a). The estimates of reserves and future revenue have been prepared in accordance with the definitions and regulations of the SEC and, with the exception of the exclusion of future income taxes, conform to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 932, Extractive Activities—Oil and Gas. We completed our audit on or about the date of this letter. This report has been prepared for Southwestern’s use in filing with the SEC; in our opinion the assumptions, data, methods, and procedures used in the preparation of this report are appropriate for such purpose.  

The following table sets forth Southwestern’s estimates of the net reserves and future net revenue, as of June 30, 2014, for the audited properties:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Totals may not add because of rounding.  

The oil volumes shown include crude oil and condensate. Oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) volumes are expressed in millions of barrels (MMBBL); a barrel is equivalent to 42 United States gallons. Gas volumes are expressed in billions of cubic feet (BCF) at standard temperature and pressure bases.  

When compared on a well-by-well basis, some of the estimates of Southwestern are greater and some are less than the estimates of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (NSAI). However, in our opinion the estimates of the interest owner’s proved reserves and future revenue shown herein are, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE Standards). Additionally, these estimates are within the recommended 10 percent tolerance threshold set forth in the SPE Standards. We are satisfied with the methods and procedures used by Southwestern in preparing the June 30, 2014, estimates of reserves and future revenue, and we saw nothing of an unusual nature that would cause us to take exception with the estimates, in the aggregate, as prepared by Southwestern.  

The estimates shown herein are for proved reserves. Southwestern’s estimates do not include probable or possible reserves that may exist for these properties, nor do they include any value for undeveloped acreage beyond those tracts for which undeveloped reserves have been estimated. Reserves categorization conveys the relative degree of certainty; reserves subcategorization is based on development and production status. The estimates of reserves and future revenue included herein have not been adjusted for risk.  

Prices used by Southwestern are based on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month in the period July 2013 through June 2014. For oil and NGL volumes, the average West Texas Intermediate posted price of $96.75 per barrel is adjusted for quality and market differentials. For gas volumes, the average Henry Hub spot price of $4.10 per MMBTU is adjusted for energy content and market differentials. All prices are held constant throughout the lives of the properties. The average adjusted product prices weighted by production over the remaining lives of the properties are $86.66 per barrel of oil, $29.91 per barrel of NGL, and $3.85 per MCF of gas.  

Operating costs used by Southwestern are based on operating expense records of the interest owner of the properties. For the nonoperated properties, these costs include the per-well overhead expenses allowed under joint operating agreements along with estimates of costs to be incurred at and below the district and field levels. Operating costs for the operated properties are limited to direct lease- and field-level costs and Southwestern’s estimate of the portion of the interest owner’s headquarters general and administrative overhead expenses necessary to operate the properties. Operating costs have been divided into per-well costs and per-unit-of-production costs and include marketing and transportation costs. Capital costs used by Southwestern are based on authorizations for expenditure and actual costs from recent activity. Capital costs are included as required for workovers, new development wells, and production equipment. Abandonment costs used are Southwestern’s estimates of the costs to abandon the wells and production facilities, net of any salvage value. Operating, capital, and abandonment costs are not escalated for inflation.  

The reserves shown in this report are estimates only and should not be construed as exact quantities. Proved reserves are those quantities of oil and gas which, by analysis of engineering and geoscience data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible; probable and possible reserves are those additional reserves which are sequentially less certain to be recovered than proved reserves. Estimates of reserves may increase or decrease as a result of market conditions, future operations, changes in regulations, or actual reservoir performance. In addition to the primary economic assumptions discussed herein, estimates of Southwestern and NSAI are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, that the properties will be developed consistent with current development plans, that the properties will be operated in a prudent manner, that no governmental regulations or controls will be put in place that would impact the ability of the interest owner to recover the reserves, and that projections of future production will prove consistent with actual performance. If the reserves are recovered, the revenues therefrom and the costs related thereto could be more or less than the estimated amounts. Because of governmental policies and uncertainties of supply and demand, the sales rates, prices received for the reserves, and costs incurred in recovering such reserves may vary from assumptions made while preparing these estimates.  

It should be understood that our audit does not constitute a complete reserves study of the audited oil and gas properties. Our audit consisted primarily of substantive testing, wherein we conducted a detailed review of all properties. In the conduct of our audit, we have not independently verified the accuracy and completeness of information and data furnished by Southwestern with respect to ownership interests, oil and gas production, well test data, historical costs of operation and development, product prices, or any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties and sales of production. However, if in the course of our examination something came to our attention that brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, we did not rely on such information or data until we had satisfactorily resolved our questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data. Our audit did not include a review of Southwestern’s overall reserves management processes and practices.  

We used standard engineering and geoscience methods, or a combination of methods, including performance analysis, volumetric analysis, and analogy, that we considered to be appropriate and necessary to establish the conclusions set forth herein. As in all aspects of oil and gas evaluation, there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of engineering and geoscience data; therefore, our conclusions necessarily represent only informed professional judgment.  

Supporting data documenting this audit, along with data provided by Southwestern, are on file in our office. The technical persons responsible for conducting this audit meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity, and confidentiality set forth in the SPE Standards. Richard B. Talley, Jr., a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas, has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 2004 and has over 5 years of prior industry experience. William J. Knights, a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas, has been practicing consulting petroleum geoscience at NSAI since 1991 and has over 10 years of prior industry experience. We are independent petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists, and petrophysicists; we do not own an interest in these properties nor are we employed on a contingent basis.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

SWJ:SAO  

Please be advised that the digital document you are viewing is provided by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (NSAI) as a convenience to our clients. The digital document is intended to be substantively the same as the original signed document maintained by NSAI. The digital document is subject to the parameters, limitations, and conditions stated in the original document. In the event of any differences between the digital document and the original document, the original document shall control and supersede the digital document.