EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

Company contacts:  

Bob Blair  

Western Digital Investor Relations  

949.672.7834  

robert.blair@wdc.com  

Steve Shattuck  

Western Digital Public Relations  

949.672.7817  

steve.shattuck@wdc.com  

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:  

WESTERN DIGITAL BOARD INCREASES DIVIDEND FOR THIRD QUARTER OF FISCAL 2015; AUTHORIZES ADDITIONAL $2.0 BILLION OF SHARE REPURCHASES  

IRVINE, Calif. — Feb. 3, 2015 — Western Digital® Corp. (NASDAQ: WDC) today announced that the board of directors declared a cash dividend for the quarter ending Apr. 3, 2015, of $0.50 per share of common stock (the “cash dividend”). The cash dividend will be paid on Apr. 16, 2015, to the company’s stockholders of record as of Apr. 3, 2015.  

The board also authorized an additional $2.0 billion for share repurchases by the company. As of Feb. 2, 2015, the company had approximately $384 million remaining under prior share repurchase authorizations. The additional repurchase authorization is effective immediately. Share repurchases will be made on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions and may be made pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans.  

Since 2012, the company has increased its quarterly dividend three times from the original $0.25 per share and repurchased approximately $2.6 billion of its shares.  

The amount and timing of future dividends and share repurchases, and the declaration and payment or repurchase thereof, will be based upon all relevant factors, including the company’s financial position, results of operations, cash flows, capital requirements and restrictions under the company’s existing credit agreement, and shall be in compliance with applicable law. The board retains the power to modify, suspend or cancel the company’s share repurchase program and dividend policy in any manner and at any time as it may deem necessary or appropriate in the future.  

Western Digital Board Increases Dividend for Third Quarter of Fiscal 2015; Authorizes  

Additional $2.0 Billion of Share Repurchases  

 Page 2  

About Western Digital  

Founded in 1970, Western Digital Corp. (NASDAQ: WDC), Irvine, Calif., is an industry-leading developer and manufacturer of storage solutions that enable people to create, manage, experience and preserve digital content. Its HGST and WD® subsidiaries are long-time innovators in the storage industry. Western Digital Corporation is responding to changing market needs by providing a full portfolio of compelling, high-quality storage products with effective technology deployment, high efficiency, flexibility and speed. Our products are marketed under the HGST, WD and G-Technology™ brands to OEMs, distributors, resellers, cloud infrastructure providers and consumers. Financial and investor information is available on the company’s Investor Relations website at investor.wdc.com.  

This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements concerning the company’s dividend for the third quarter of fiscal year 2015 and share repurchases. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including volatility in global economic conditions; business conditions and growth in the storage ecosystem; pricing trends and fluctuations in average selling prices; the availability and cost of commodity materials and specialized product components; actions by competitors; unexpected advances in competing technologies; the development and introduction of products based on new technologies and expansion into new data storage markets; and other risks and uncertainties listed in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including the company’s recent Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on Nov. 4, 2014, and the company’s registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC on Nov. 5, 2014, to which your attention is directed. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof, and the company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.  

Western Digital Board Increases Dividend for Third Quarter of Fiscal 2015; Authorizes  

Additional $2.0 Billion of Share Repurchases  

 Page 3  

###  

Western Digital, WD and the WD logo are registered trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. HGST trademarks are intended and authorized for use only in countries and jurisdictions in which HGST has obtained the rights to use, market and advertise the brand. Other marks may be mentioned herein that belong to other companies.