PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

American Airlines Group Inc. (AAG), a Delaware corporation, is a holding company and its principal, wholly-owned subsidiaries are American Airlines, Inc. (American), Envoy Aviation Group Inc., PSA Airlines, Inc. (PSA) and Piedmont Airlines, Inc. (Piedmont). AAG was formed in 1982, under the name AMR Corporation (AMR), as the parent company of American, which was founded in 1934.

AAG’s and American’s principal executive offices are located at 1 Skyview Drive, Fort Worth, Texas 76155 and their telephone number is 682-278-9000.

Airline Operations

Together with our wholly-owned regional airline subsidiaries and third-party regional carriers operating as American Eagle, our primary business activity is the operation of a major network air carrier, providing scheduled air transportation for passengers and cargo through our hubs in Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, Phoenix and Washington, D.C. and partner gateways, including in London, Madrid, Seattle/Tacoma, Sydney and Tokyo (among others).

More than 165 million passengers boarded our flights in 2021, compared to 95 million passengers in 2020 and 215 million passengers in 2019. Since March 2020, we have experienced an unprecedented decline in the demand for air travel due to the impact of COVID-19, which has resulted in a material deterioration in our revenues. Our capacity continues to be reduced compared to pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels, with total capacity in 2021 down 24.7% as compared to 2019. Domestic capacity in 2021 was down 14.5% while international capacity was down 44.9% as compared to 2019. While demand for domestic and short-haul international markets has largely recovered to 2019 levels, uncertainty remains regarding the timing of a full recovery. We will continue to match our forward capacity with observed booking trends for future travel and make further adjustments to our capacity as needed.

COVID-19 has been declared a global health pandemic by the World Health Organization. COVID-19 has surfaced in nearly all regions of the world, which has driven the implementation of significant, government-imposed measures to prevent or reduce its spread, including travel restrictions, testing regimes, closing of borders, “stay at home” orders and business closures. Ongoing global vaccination efforts and the corresponding lifting of government restrictions in and between many markets resulted in a partial recovery in demand for air travel in 2021, which improved our revenues as compared to 2020. However, the return of demand was weaker than previous expectations and the speed and strength of this recovery remain uncertain, primarily due to the global rise in COVID-19 cases associated with the delta and omicron variants and the potential for continuation or reimposition of restrictions on global travel. The continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including any increases in infection rates, new variants and renewed governmental action to slow the spread of COVID-19 cannot be estimated.

As of December 31, 2021, we operated 865 mainline aircraft supported by our regional airline subsidiaries and third-party regional carriers, which together operated an additional 567 regional aircraft. See Part I, Item 2. Properties for further discussion of our mainline and regional aircraft and “Regional” below for further discussion of our regional operations.

American is a founding member of the oneworld® Alliance, which brings together a global network of 14 world-class member airlines and their affiliates, working together to provide a superior and seamless travel experience. See “Distribution and Marketing Agreements” below for further discussion on the oneworld Alliance and other agreements with domestic and international airlines.

See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations –“2021 Financial Overview,” “AAG’s Results of Operations” and “American’s Results of Operations” for further discussion of AAG’s and American’s operating results and operating performance. Also, see Note 1(l) to each of AAG’s and American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Items 8A and 8B, respectively, for passenger revenue by geographic region and Note 13 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 12 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B for information regarding operating segments. 

7
Regional

Our regional carriers provide scheduled air transportation under the brand name “American Eagle.” The American Eagle carriers include our wholly-owned regional carriers Envoy Air Inc. (Envoy), PSA and Piedmont, as well as third-party regional carriers including Republic Airways Inc. (Republic), SkyWest Airlines, Inc. (SkyWest), and Mesa Airlines, Inc. (Mesa). Our regional carriers are an integral component of our operating network. We rely heavily on regional carriers to drive feeder traffic to our hubs from low-density markets that are not economical for us to serve with larger, mainline aircraft. In addition, regional carriers offer complementary service in many of our mainline markets. All American Eagle carriers use logos, service marks, aircraft paint schemes and uniforms similar to those of our mainline operations. In 2021, 49 million passengers boarded our regional carriers’ planes, approximately 44% of whom connected to or from our mainline flights.

Substantially all of our regional carrier arrangements are in the form of capacity purchase agreements. The capacity purchase agreements provide that all revenues, including passenger, in-flight, ancillary, mail and freight revenues, go to us. We control marketing, scheduling, ticketing, pricing and seat inventories. In return, we agree to pay predetermined fees to these airlines for operating an agreed-upon number of aircraft, without regard to the number of passengers on board. In addition, these agreements provide that we either reimburse or pay 100% of certain variable costs, such as airport landing fees, fuel and passenger liability insurance. 

Cargo

Our cargo division provides a wide range of freight and mail services, with facilities and interline connections available across the globe. In 2020, we expanded our cargo service and launched our first cargo-only flights since 1984 to transport critical goods, including COVID-19 vaccines, between the U.S. and Europe, Asia and Latin America. Since March 2020, we have operated more than 10,000 cargo-only flights serving approximately 30 destinations. These cargo-only flights have helped our customers move more than 350 million pounds of critical goods around the world amidst the COVID-19 pandemic and the related pandemic-driven supply chain challenges.

Distribution and Marketing Agreements

Passengers can purchase tickets for travel on American through several distribution channels, including our website (www.aa.com), our mobile app, our reservations centers and third-party distribution channels, including those provided by or through global distribution systems (e.g., Amadeus, Sabre and Travelport), conventional travel agents, travel management companies and online travel agents (e.g., Expedia, including its booking sites Orbitz and Travelocity, and Booking Holdings, including its booking sites Kayak and Priceline). To remain competitive, we will need to manage our distribution costs and rights effectively, increase our distribution flexibility and improve the functionality of our proprietary and third-party distribution channels, while maintaining an industry-competitive cost structure. For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “We rely on third-party distribution channels and must manage effectively the costs, rights and functionality of these channels.”

In general, beyond nonstop city pairs, carriers that have the greatest ability to seamlessly connect passengers to and from markets have a competitive advantage. In some cases, however, foreign governments limit U.S. air carriers’ rights to transport passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign countries. In order to improve access to domestic and foreign markets, we have arrangements with other airlines including through the oneworld Alliance, other cooperation agreements, joint business agreements and marketing relationships, as further discussed below.

Member of oneworld Alliance

American is a founding member of the oneworld Alliance, which currently includes Alaska Airlines, British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Finnair, Iberia, Japan Airlines, Malaysia Airlines, Qantas Airways (Qantas), Qatar Airways, Royal Air Maroc, Royal Jordanian Airlines, S7 Airlines and SriLankan Airlines. Fiji Airways is a oneworld connect partner. The oneworld Alliance links the networks of member carriers and their respective affiliates to enhance customer service and provide smooth connections to the destinations served by the alliance, including linking member carriers’ loyalty programs and providing reciprocal access to the carriers’ airport lounge facilities.

8
Cooperation and Joint Business Agreements

American has established a transatlantic joint business with British Airways, Aer Lingus, Iberia and Finnair, a transpacific joint business with Japan Airlines and a joint business relating to Australia and New Zealand with Qantas, each of which has been granted antitrust immunity. Joint business agreements enable the carriers involved to cooperate on flights between particular destinations and allow pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, enhanced loyalty program reciprocity and cooperation in other areas. American and its joint business partners received regulatory approval to enter into these cooperation agreements. Joint business agreements have become a common approach among major carriers to address key regulatory restrictions typically applicable to international airline service, including limitations on the foreign ownership of airlines and national laws prohibiting foreign airlines from carrying passengers beyond specific gateway cities. Our competitors, including Delta Air Lines and United Airlines, are party to similar arrangements.

The business relationship under the transatlantic joint business benefits from a grant of antitrust immunity from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and was reviewed by the European Commission (EC) in July 2010. In connection with this review, we provided certain commitments to the EC regarding, among other things, the availability of take-off and landing slots at London Heathrow (LHR) or London Gatwick (LGW) airports. The commitments accepted by the EC were binding for 10 years. In October 2018, in anticipation of the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union (EU), commonly referred to as Brexit, and the expiry of the EC commitments in July 2020, the United Kingdom Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) opened an investigation into the transatlantic joint business. We continue to fully cooperate with the CMA and, in September 2020, the CMA adopted interim measures that effectively extend the EC commitments for an additional three years until March 2024 in light of the uncertainty created by the COVID-19 pandemic. The CMA plans to complete its investigation before the interim measures expire.

Marketing Relationships

To improve access to each other’s markets, various U.S. and foreign air carriers, including American, have established marketing agreements with other airlines. These marketing agreements generally provide enhanced customer choice by means of an expanded network with reciprocal loyalty program participation and joint sales cooperation. As of December 31, 2021, American had codeshare and/or loyalty program relationships with Aer Lingus, Air Tahiti Nui, Alaska Airlines, British Airways, Cape Air, Cathay Pacific, China Southern Airlines Company Limited (China Southern Airlines), EL AL Israel Airlines, Etihad Airways, Fiji Airways, Finnair, GOL Linhas Aéreas Inteligentes S.A. (GOL), Gulf Air, Hawaiian Airlines, Iberia, IndiGo, Japan Airlines, JetBlue Airways Corporation (JetBlue), Malaysia Airlines, Qantas, Qatar Airways, Royal Air Maroc, Royal Jordanian Airlines, S7 Airlines, Silver Airways, SriLankan Airlines and Vueling Airlines.

In 2021, we began implementing key aspects of our marketing relationship with JetBlue, creating seamless connectivity for travelers in the U.S. Northeast and more choice for customers across our complementary domestic and international networks. This arrangement includes an alliance agreement with reciprocal codesharing on certain domestic and international routes from New York (John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK), LaGuardia Airport (LGA) and Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR)) and Boston Logan International Airport (BOS), and provides for reciprocal loyalty program benefits. The arrangement does not include JetBlue’s transatlantic flying. Pursuant to federal law, American and JetBlue submitted this proposed alliance arrangement to the DOT for review. After American, JetBlue and the DOT agreed to a series of commitments, the DOT terminated its review of the proposed alliance in January 2021. The commitments include growth commitments to ensure capacity expansion, slot divestitures at JFK and at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA) near Washington, D.C. and antitrust compliance measures. Beyond this agreement with the DOT (the DOT Agreement), American and JetBlue will also refrain from certain kinds of coordination on certain city pair markets. Upon the DOT’s termination of its review of the proposed alliance, American and JetBlue implemented the proposed alliance subject to these commitments. On September 21, 2021, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ), joined by Attorneys General from six states and the District of Columbia, filed an antitrust complaint against American and JetBlue alleging that American and JetBlue violated U.S. antitrust laws in connection with the Northeast Alliance arrangement (the NEA). We believe the complaint is without merit and intend to defend against it vigorously.

9
Also, in 2021, we entered into a letter of intent to establish a partnership with JetSmart Airlines SpA (JetSMART), an ultra-low-cost carrier operating from Chile and Argentina to destinations throughout South America. This proposed arrangement includes a codeshare agreement between the two airlines, which would create more options for customers traveling between the U.S. and South America and enable customers to earn and redeem AAdvantage miles on JetSMART flights. We also entered into a letter of intent to deepen our partnership with GOL, Brazil’s largest airline, in September 2021, and in February 2022, entered into a definitive investment agreement with GOL pursuant to which we intend to invest $200 million in exchange for a 5.2% economic interest in GOL. This expanded partnership with GOL includes an exclusive codeshare agreement, allowing customers access to more than 30 destinations served by American in the U.S. and more than 20 new destinations served by GOL in South America. Members of GOL’s SMILES and American’s AAdvantage loyalty programs will also benefit from a deeper SMILES and AAdvantage loyalty program partnership. In addition, the expanded partnership with GOL will allow further commercial cooperation in areas such as purchasing, sales tools and systems integrations, as allowed by regulatory and contractual limitations. Both the JetSMART and GOL transactions are subject to the satisfaction of closing conditions, certain regulatory approvals and, in the case of the JetSMART transaction, the completion of definitive documentation.

Loyalty Program

Our loyalty program, AAdvantage®, was established to develop passenger loyalty by offering benefits and awards to travelers for their continued patronage with American and our partners. AAdvantage members earn mileage credits for flying on American, any oneworld Alliance airline or other partner airlines. For every dollar spent by flying on American, members earn five mileage credits, and Gold, Platinum, Platinum Pro and Executive Platinum status holders earn additional bonus mileage credits of 40%, 60%, 80% and 120%, respectively. Members also earn mileage credits by using the services of more than 1,000 non-flight partners, such as our co-branded credit cards, and certain hotels and car rental companies. The AAdvantage program in general, and our co-branded credit cards in particular, are significant assets of our business and have become increasingly important to our company over time.

All travel on eligible tickets counts toward qualification for status in the AAdvantage program. Mileage credits can be redeemed for free or upgraded travel on American and participating airlines, membership to our Admirals Club® or for other non-flight awards from our program partners. Most travel awards are subject to capacity-controlled seating. A member’s mileage credits generally do not expire if that member has any type of qualifying activity at least once every 18 months. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we suspended the expiration of mileage credits through March 31, 2022 and eliminated mileage reinstatement fees for canceled award tickets. Status members can enjoy additional travel benefits of the AAdvantage program, including complimentary upgrades, checked bags, and Preferred and Main Cabin Extra seats, as well as priority check-in, security, boarding and baggage delivery when traveling on American or any oneworld Alliance airline. In 2021, we announced a redesign of status qualifying metrics. Starting in 2022, AAdvantage members will have more pathways to status and only one metric to track: Loyalty Points, which can be earned through a variety of qualifying travel and non-travel activities, including use of our co-branded credit cards. Additionally, 2020 AAdvantage status was extended through March 31, 2022 for all members.

Under our agreements with AAdvantage members and program partners, we reserve the right to change the terms of the AAdvantage program at any time and without notice, and may end the program with six months’ notice. Program rules, partners, special offers, awards and requisite mileage levels for awards are subject to change.

During 2021, our members redeemed approximately 11 million awards, including travel redemptions for flights and upgrades on American and other air carriers, as well as redemption of car and hotel awards, club memberships and merchandise. Approximately 7% of our 2021 total revenue passenger miles flown were from award travel.

See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” for more information on our loyalty program.

10
Industry Competition

Domestic

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. On most of our domestic nonstop routes, we face competing service from other domestic airlines, including major network airlines, low-cost carriers and ultra-low-cost carriers such as Alaska Airlines, Allegiant Air, Delta Air Lines, Frontier Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines, JetBlue, Southwest Airlines, Spirit Airlines and United Airlines. Between cities that require a connection, where the major airlines compete via their respective hubs, competition is significant. In addition, we face competition on some of our connecting routes from airlines operating point-to-point service on such routes. We also compete with all-cargo and charter airlines and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation.

On all of our routes, pricing decisions are affected, in large part, by the need to meet competition from other airlines. Price competition occurs on a market-by-market basis through price discounts, changes in pricing structures, fare matching, targeted promotions and loyalty program initiatives. Airlines typically use discounted fares and other promotions to stimulate traffic during normally weak travel periods, when they begin service to new cities, when they have excess capacity, to generate cash flow, to maximize revenue per available seat mile or to establish, increase or preserve market share. Most airlines will quickly match price reductions in a particular market, and we have often elected to match discounted or promotional fares initiated by other air carriers in certain markets in order to compete in those markets. In addition, we face pricing pressures from so-called ultra-low-cost carriers, such as Allegiant Air, Frontier Airlines and Spirit Airlines, which compete in many of the markets in which we operate, with competition from these carriers increasing and new entrants regularly announcing their intention to start up new ultra-low-cost carriers.

In addition to price competition, airlines compete for market share by increasing the size of their route system and the number of markets they serve. The American Eagle regional carriers increase the number of markets we serve by flying to smaller markets and providing connections at our hubs. Many of our competitors also own or have agreements with regional airlines that provide similar services at their hubs and other locations. We also compete on the basis of scheduling (frequency and flight times), availability of nonstop flights, on-time performance, type of equipment, cabin configuration, amenities provided to passengers, loyalty programs, the automation of travel agent reservation systems, onboard products, health and safety and other services. 

International

In addition to our extensive domestic service, we provide international service to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, Central and South America, Europe, China, Japan, Korea, India, Australia and New Zealand. In 2022, we will launch service to Doha, Qatar, allowing customers to access destinations in the Middle East and the surrounding regions. In providing international air transportation, we compete with other U.S. airlines, foreign investor-owned airlines and foreign state-owned or state-affiliated airlines. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, competition had been increasing from foreign state-owned and state-affiliated airlines in the Gulf region. These carriers have large numbers of international widebody aircraft in service and on order and had been increasing service to the U.S. from locations both in and outside the Middle East. Service to and from locations outside of the Middle East was provided by some of these carriers under so-called “fifth freedom” rights permitted under international treaties which allow service to and from stopover points between an airline’s home country and the ultimate destination. Such flights, such as a stopover in Europe on flights to the United States, allow the carrier to sell tickets for travel between the stopover point and the United States in competition with service provided by us. We believe these state-owned and state-affiliated carriers in the Gulf region, including their affiliated carriers, benefit from significant government subsidies, which have allowed them to grow quickly, reinvest in their product and expand their global presence. We expect this to continue after the COVID-19 pandemic subsides. Competition had also been increasing from low-cost airlines executing international long-haul expansion strategies, a trend we also expect to continue after the COVID-19 pandemic subsides and the delivery of planned, long-range narrowbody aircraft commences.

In order to increase our ability to compete in the market for international air transportation service, which is subject to extensive government regulation, U.S. and foreign carriers have entered into bilateral and multilateral marketing relationships, alliances, cooperation agreements and joint business agreements to exchange traffic among each other’s flights and route networks. See “Distribution and Marketing Agreements” above for further discussion.

11
Our People

The airline business is labor intensive, and our team members are our most important asset. The operational complexity of our business requires a diverse team of personnel trained and experienced in a variety of technical areas such as flight operations, ground operations, safety and maintenance, customer service, and airline scheduling and planning. We believe that if we create an environment where our team members feel supported, they will take care of our customers and thereby support the success of our business. To do this, we must continue to build a diverse and inclusive environment, helping all team members reach their full potential and providing them with the right resources and support.

Talent Development

We give our team members the tools, training and resources they need to do their best work. We have a suite of programs aimed at helping our people develop the skills and experience to succeed in their roles and build rewarding, long-term careers within our company. Additionally, we’ve partnered with leading online learning platforms to make professional development available on-demand to all our team members.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Cultivating an environment that celebrates diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) is a top priority for us, and we seek to create a workplace where diverse perspectives and experiences are welcomed and encouraged, where team members feel comfortable to be their authentic selves and where we are always learning from one another. Our DEI goals include:

•diversifying our leadership team by establishing specific objectives and laying out a plan to achieve them, including enhancing our recruiting, development and mentoring programs;

•providing additional learning opportunities beyond implicit bias training to generate further education and awareness of diversity and inclusion matters; and

•pledging to assist Black youth in developing job skills and expanding access to well-paying careers as part of our overall strategy to increase opportunities in our hub cities and Tulsa, Oklahoma, where our largest maintenance facility is based.

In 2021, we continued to take steps towards achieving these goals. We:

•increased Black representation at the directors and above level by approximately 80%, exceeding our goal of a 50% increase set at the beginning of 2021;

•announced a second round of the Executive Sponsorship Program, first launched in September 2020, whereby a group of Black leaders have been paired with an executive leader for a year-long mentorship program;

•launched an inclusive workplace DEI training completed by more than 90,000 team members;

•introduced the Inclusion Education Series, a new web-based training series designed to help each team member become an upstander, with the first course focusing on how team members can recognize when something is wrong, act to make it right and better understand microaggressions;

•started using HiredScore, a hiring technology platform designed to ensure accountability and mitigate potential hiring bias;

•partnered with McKinsey & Company to offer select team members access to its Leadership Academies; and

•became one of six companies to receive Fair Pay Workplace’s inaugural pay equity certification for our management and support staff team to ensure equitable pay regardless of gender or race and approximately 86% of our team members are represented by unions and already have built-in pay equity. This certification will require us to undergo regular check-ins for progress to build upon fair pay practices.

12
Competitive Pay and Comprehensive Benefits

We offer competitive pay, comprehensive benefits and a wide variety of resources designed to support the physical, behavioral and financial well-being of our team members and their families. We’re committed to providing medical coverage that is both affordable and flexible along with health care navigation and support tools. Additionally, during the pandemic, we offered COVID-19 testing, paid pandemic leave, and vaccinations to support our team members and ensure the continuity of our operation.

Our internal recognition programs give team members and customers the opportunity to show their appreciation for a job well done, including through our Nonstop Thanks program whereby team members can award each other points for a job well done or as an expression of gratitude. Recognition points earned through the recognition program can be redeemed for items in an online catalog. In 2021, our team members were recognized by customers, peers and company leaders approximately 2 million times and hundreds of team members were nominated for the annual Chairman’s Award, the highest honor that we bestow upon our team members.

Our future success depends in large part on our ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified management, technical and other personnel. For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “The loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business or the inability to attract and develop additional qualified personnel could adversely affect our business.”

Effects of the COVID-19 Pandemic on our Team Members

The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a decline in demand for our services. We have taken aggressive actions since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic to mitigate its effects on our business, including capacity reductions, structural changes to our fleet, cost reductions including implementing voluntary leave and early retirement programs, and steps to preserve cash and improve our overall liquidity position, consistent with the terms of the financial assistance we have received from the U.S. Government under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act), Subtitle A of Title IV of Division N of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (PSP Extension Law) and Section 7301 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (the ARP).

Pursuant to the Payroll Support Program Agreement (PSP1 Agreement), the U.S. Department of Treasury (Treasury), provided us with an aggregate of $6.0 billion of financial assistance in 2020. In addition, pursuant to the Payroll Support Program Extension Agreement (PSP2 Agreement) and the Payroll Support Program 3 Agreement (PSP3 Agreement), Treasury provided us financial assistance in aggregate of approximately $3.5 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively, in 2021. Using these funds, we were able to continue payment of eligible employee wages, salaries and benefits until demand for air travel sufficiently recovered.

Retaining and recruiting people with the appropriate skills is particularly challenging as the economy in general, and the airline industry in particular, continue to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic resulting in competition for the human resources necessary to operate our business successfully. Like many other airlines, we have experienced and continue to experience periodic shortages of frontline team members as a result of, among other things, demand for domestic travel returning more quickly than anticipated and higher than normal team member absences due to the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. In advance of the 2021 winter holiday season, one of our busiest travel periods, we offered a holiday incentive pay program intended to encourage attendance and to recognize our team members for their extraordinary efforts during this difficult time. For more discussion on the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, including the impact on our people, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “The outbreak and global spread of COVID-19 has resulted in a severe decline in demand for air travel which has adversely impacted our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity. The duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, and similar public health threats that we may face in the future, could result in additional adverse effects on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity.”

Labor Relations

In 2021, salaries, wages and benefits were our largest expense and represented 43% of our total operating expenses. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 123,400 active full-time equivalent employees, approximately 86% of whom were represented by various labor unions responsible for negotiating the collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) governing their compensation and job duties, among other things. 

Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act (RLA), which vests in the National Mediation Board (NMB) certain functions with respect to disputes between airlines and labor unions relating to 

13
union representation and CBAs. When an RLA CBA becomes amendable, if either party to the agreement wishes to modify its terms, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed under the RLA and as agreed by the parties. Under the RLA, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and, if no agreement is reached during direct negotiations between the parties, either party may request that the NMB appoint a federal mediator. The RLA prescribes no timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation processes, and it is not unusual for those processes to last for many months or even several years. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare that an impasse exists and proffer binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to arbitration and if arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day “cooling off” period commences. During or after that period, a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB) may be established, which examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and is followed by another 30-day “cooling off” period. At the end of this “cooling off” period, unless an agreement is reached or action is taken by Congress, the labor organization may exercise “self-help,” such as a strike, and the airline may resort to its own “self-help,” including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments to the CBA and the hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers.

None of the unions representing our employees presently may lawfully engage in concerted slowdowns or refusals to work, such as strikes, sick-outs or other similar activity, against us. Nonetheless, there is a risk that employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in one or more concerted refusals to work that could individually or collectively harm the operation of our airline and impair our financial performance.

The following table shows our domestic airline employee groups that are represented by unions:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

14
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Represents approximate number of active employees as well as employees who opted for a voluntary partially paid leave as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic as of December 31, 2021.

Joint collective bargaining agreements (JCBAs) covering our mainline pilots, flight attendants, passenger service, flight simulator engineers and dispatchers are now amendable. In January 2022, our mainline flight crew training instructors ratified a three-year agreement which is now amendable in 2025. Among our wholly-owned regional subsidiaries, the Envoy mechanics and related, Envoy stock clerks, Piedmont flight attendants, Piedmont mechanics and related and Piedmont stock clerks have agreements that are now amendable and are engaged in traditional RLA negotiations. In January 2022, the Piedmont flight attendants reached a tentative four-year agreement subject to membership ratification.

For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions, or our inability to otherwise maintain labor costs at competitive levels may adversely affect our operations and financial performance.”

Aircraft Fuel

Our operations and financial results are materially affected by the availability and price of aircraft fuel, which represents one of the largest single cost items in our business. Based on our 2022 forecasted mainline and regional fuel consumption, we estimate that a one cent per gallon increase in the price of aircraft fuel would increase our 2022 annual fuel expense by approximately $40 million.

The following table shows annual aircraft fuel consumption and costs, including taxes, for our mainline and regional operations for 2021 and 2020 (gallons and aircraft fuel expense in millions).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2021, we did not have any fuel hedging contracts outstanding to hedge our fuel consumption. Our current policy is not to enter into transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, although we review that policy from time to time based on market conditions and other factors. As such, and assuming we do not enter into any future transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, we will continue to be fully exposed to fluctuations in aircraft fuel prices.

Aircraft fuel prices have in the past, and may in the future, experience substantial volatility. We cannot predict the future availability, price volatility or cost of aircraft fuel. For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Our business is very dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on consumer demand, our operating results and liquidity.”

15
Seasonality and Other Factors

Due to the greater demand for air travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be greater than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. General economic conditions, fears of terrorism or war, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor actions, weather, natural disasters, outbreaks of disease and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern. Therefore, our quarterly results of operations are not necessarily indicative of operating results for the entire year, and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.

The COVID-19 outbreak, along with the measures governments and private organizations worldwide have implemented in an attempt to contain the spread of this pandemic, has resulted in a decline in demand for air travel, which has adversely affected our business, operations and financial condition to an unprecedented extent, and affected the traditional seasonal trends of the airline business. Measures ranging from travel restrictions, including testing regimes, “stay at home” and quarantine orders, limitations on public gatherings to cancellation of public events and many others have resulted in a decline in demand for travel.

Domestic and Global Regulatory Landscape

General

Airlines are subject to extensive domestic and international regulatory requirements. Domestically, the DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) exercise significant regulatory authority over air carriers.

The DOT, among other things, oversees and regulates domestic and international codeshare agreements, international route authorities, competition and consumer protection matters including, among other things, accessibility, advertising and fee display, and refund practices. The Antitrust Division of the DOJ, along with the DOT in certain instances, have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters.

The FAA similarly exercises safety oversight and regulates most operational matters of our business, including how we operate and maintain our aircraft. FAA requirements cover, among other things, required technology and necessary onboard equipment; systems, procedures and training necessary to ensure the continuous airworthiness of our fleet of aircraft; safety measures and equipment; crew scheduling limitations and experience requirements; and many other technical aspects of airline operations. Additionally, our pilots and other employees are subject to rigorous certification standards, and our pilots and other crew members must adhere to flight time and rest requirements.

The FAA also controls the national airspace system, including operational rules and fees for air traffic control (ATC) services. The efficiency, reliability and capacity of the ATC network has a significant impact on our costs and on the timeliness of our operations.

The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services.

16
Airport Access and Operations

Domestically, any U.S. airline authorized by the DOT is generally free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the U.S. and its territories, with the exception of certain airports that require landing and take-off rights and authorizations (slots) and other facilities, and certain airports that impose geographic limitations on operations or curtail operations based on the time of day. Operations at three major domestic airports we serve (JFK and LGA in New York City, and DCA near Washington, D.C.) and many foreign airports we serve (including LHR) are regulated by governmental entities through allocations of slots or similar regulatory mechanisms that limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. Each slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time period. In addition to slot restrictions, operations at DCA and LGA are also limited based on a so-called “perimeter rule” which generally limits the stage length of the flights that can be operated from those airports to 1,250 and 1,500 miles, respectively. Generally, our ability to retain slots is conditioned on the continued use of such slots, and in the absence of use, the slots are subject to forfeiture. Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic and through the Winter 2021-2022 season, global regulators have offered varying levels of slot utilization requirement waivers. In some jurisdictions, we have used these waivers at times to reduce flying levels given limited demand for travel. We cannot guarantee that such waivers will remain available to us, or that upon expiration or cancellation of such waivers it will be economical for us to resume prior levels of flying to destinations where we currently operate a reduced service. If we are forced to surrender slots, we may be unable to provide our desired level of service to or from certain destinations in the future. For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors – “If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system and, at some airports, adequate slots, we may be unable to operate our existing flight schedule and to expand or change our route network in the future, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations.”

Our ability to provide service can also be impaired at airports, such as Chicago O’Hare International Airport (ORD) and Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) where the airport gate and other facilities are currently inadequate to accommodate all of the service that we would like to provide, or airports such as Dallas Love Field Airport where we have no access to gates at all.

Existing law also permits domestic local airport authorities to implement procedures and impose restrictions designed to abate noise, provided such procedures and restrictions do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national transportation system. In some instances, these restrictions have caused curtailments in service or increases in operating costs.

Airline Fares, Taxes and User Fees

Airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without governmental regulation. The DOT maintains authority over certain international fares, rates and charges, but only applies this authority on a limited basis. In addition, international fares and rates are sometimes subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries which we serve.

Airlines are obligated to collect a federal excise tax, commonly referred to as the “ticket tax,” on domestic and international air transportation, and to collect other taxes and charge other fees, such as foreign taxes, security fees and passenger facility charges. Although these taxes and fees are not our operating expenses, they represent an additional cost to our customers. These taxes and fees are subject to increase from time to time.

DOT Passenger Protection Rules

The DOT regulates airline interactions with passengers through the ticketing process, at the airport and on board the aircraft. Among other things, these regulations govern how our fares are displayed online, required customer disclosures, access by disabled passengers, handling of long onboard flight delays and reporting of mishandled bags. In 2022, the DOT is expected to propose or implement a number of new regulations that will impact us, including disability rules for accessible lavatories and wheelchair assistance, refund requirements, display of ancillary fees during initial flights search, and refunds for checked bag fees in the event of certain delays in delivery.

17
International

International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation, including aviation agreements between the U.S. and other countries or governmental authorities, such as the EU and the United Kingdom. Moreover, our alliances with international carriers may be subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of various foreign agencies. The U.S. government has negotiated “open skies” agreements with 130 trading partners, which allow unrestricted route authority access between the U.S. and the foreign markets.

In addition, foreign countries impose passenger protection rules, which are analogous to, and often meet or exceed the requirements of, the DOT passenger protection rules discussed above. In cases where these foreign requirements exceed the DOT rules, we may bear additional burdens and liabilities. Further, various foreign airport authorities impose noise and curfew restrictions at their local airports.

Security

Since shortly after the events of September 11, 2001, substantially all aspects of civil aviation security in the U.S. or affecting U.S. carriers have been controlled or regulated by the federal government through the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Requirements include flight deck security; carriage of federal air marshals at no charge; enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors; fingerprint-based background checks of all employees and vendor employees with access to secure areas of airports; and the provision of certain passenger data to the federal government and other international border security authorities, for security and immigration controls. Funding for the TSA is provided by a combination of air carrier fees, passenger fees and taxpayer funds. Customs and Border Protection, which, like the TSA, is part of the Department of Homeland Security, also promulgates requirements, performs services and collects fees that impact our provision of services. Additionally, we have at times found it necessary or desirable to make significant expenditures to comply with security-related requirements while seeking to reduce their impact on our customers, such as expenditures for automated security screening lines at airports. Our international service further requires us to comply with the civil aviation security regimes imposed at the foreign airports we serve. 

Environmental Matters

Environmental Regulation

The airline industry is subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters in the U.S. and other countries. U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on our operations include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund Act). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other federal agencies have been authorized to promulgate regulations that have an impact on our operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental laws and regulations which are similar to or stricter than federal requirements.

Revised underground storage tank regulations issued by the EPA in 2015 have affected certain airport fuel hydrant systems, with modifications of such systems needed in order to comply with applicable portions of the revised regulations. In addition, related to the EPA and state regulations pertaining to storm water management, several U.S. airport authorities are actively engaged in efforts to limit discharges of deicing fluid into the environment, often by requiring airlines to participate in the building or reconfiguring of airport deicing facilities.

The environmental laws to which we are subject include those related to responsibility for potential soil and groundwater contamination. We are conducting investigation and remediation activities to address soil and groundwater conditions at several sites, including airports and maintenance bases. We presently anticipate that the ongoing costs of such activities will not have a material impact on our operations.

We employ an environmental management system that provides a systematic approach for compliance with environmental regulations and management of a broad range of issues including air emissions, hazardous waste disposal, underground tanks, and aircraft water quality. 

18
Aircraft Emissions and Climate Change Requirements

Efforts to transition to a low-carbon future have increased the focus by global, regional and national regulators on climate change and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We recognize that air travel impacts the environment and have committed to develop an intermediate, science-based target for reducing GHG emissions by the year 2035 with the goal to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. In addition to investing in strategic partnerships in an effort to help develop and support emissions-reduction solutions and accelerate clean energy technologies, we have taken a number of actions that mitigate the GHG emitted by our operations both en route and on the ground, such as:

•retiring older, less fuel-efficient aircraft and replacing them with new, more fuel-efficient aircraft, resulting in the youngest mainline fleet of any U.S. network carrier;

•reducing fuel consumption through operational initiatives such as single-engine taxi, optimal planned arrival fuel and our new flight planning system;

•entering into agreements to purchase sustainable aviation fuel;

•working with the FAA and vendors to facilitate efficient airspace procedures, which in turn reduce aircraft emissions;

•updating our fleet with lightweight interiors, including seats and furnishings, and replacing existing cargo containers with lighter weight versions; 

•replacing older, inefficient ground support equipment with new, more fuel-efficient ground support equipment, including electric powered equipment;

•purchasing renewable electricity to reduce indirect emissions associated with the production of the power we consume; and

•obtaining certification of certain of our buildings to the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) standard.

American is subject to the requirements of the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA), an international, market-based emissions reduction program adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) in 2016. CORSIA is intended to achieve carbon-neutral growth in the international aviation sector from 2021 through 2035 by requiring airlines to compensate for the growth in carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, relative to a predetermined “baseline,” of a significant majority of international flights through the purchase of carbon offsets or the use of low-carbon fuels. For each year from 2021 through 2029, CORSIA requires each airline to compensate for the rate of growth of the CO2 emissions of the aviation sector as a whole as determined by ICAO. Starting in 2030, CORSIA will require airlines to compensate for growth in CO2 emissions using a formula determined by ICAO that will combine the growth in aviation sector emissions and the growth in the individual airline’s emissions, with the proportion of the latter rising from at least 20 percent over the period 2030-2032 and to at least 70 percent over the period 2033-2035.

ICAO originally defined the baseline as the average emissions from covered flights in 2019 and 2020. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, ICAO decided to remove 2020 emissions from the baseline for the CORSIA “pilot phase” (2021-2023). ICAO is expected to make a decision about the baseline for CORSIA’s “first phase” (2024-2026) by the end of 2022. At this point, it is unclear whether ICAO will decide to continue with the 2019-only emissions baseline for future CORSIA implementation phases; certain environmental groups have advocated for reverting to the original baseline, which would make the CORSIA reduction obligations more stringent and increase the cost of compliance under CORSIA.

Currently, we do not expect to be required to purchase carbon offset credits to comply with CORSIA through 2023, unless the recovery in demand for international travel is unexpectedly strong and exceeds that of 2019 in those years.

Starting in 2024, CORSIA compliance costs are uncertain, primarily because of the difficulty in estimating the return of demand for international air travel in the recovery from the pandemic. There is also significant uncertainty with respect to the future supply and price of carbon offset credits and sustainable or lower carbon aircraft fuels that could allow us to reduce our emissions of CO2. In addition, as described above, we will not directly control our CORSIA compliance costs because our compliance obligations through 2029 are based on the growth in emissions of the global aviation sector and begin to incorporate a factor for individual airline operator emissions growth starting in 2030.

19
In January 2021, the EPA adopted GHG emission standards for new aircraft engines, which are aligned with the 2017 ICAO aircraft engine GHG emission standards. Like the ICAO standards, the final EPA standards for new aircraft engines would not apply retroactively to engines already on in-service aircraft. These final standards have been challenged by several states and environmental groups, and the Biden Administration has issued an executive order requiring a review of these final standards. On November 15, 2021, the EPA announced that it will not rewrite the existing aircraft engine GHG emissions standards but will press for ambitious new aircraft GHG emission standards at international negotiations organized by the ICAO in 2022. The outcome of the legal challenge and the development of new aircraft GHG emissions standards cannot be predicted at this time. In addition, on September 9, 2021, the Biden Administration launched the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Grand Challenge to scale up the production of sustainable aviation fuel, aiming to reduce GHG emissions from aviation by 20% by 2030 and to replace all traditional aviation fuel with sustainable aviation fuel by 2050. Whether these goals will be achieved and the potential effects on our business cannot be predicted at this time.

In 2021, the EC proposed legislation that would expand the application of and increase the stringency of the EU Emission Trading Scheme (ETS) to include flights into and out of the Europe Economic Area beginning in 2027 under certain circumstances. Further, the EC is considering the creation of a sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) blending mandate for aviation fuel suppliers beginning in 2025, among other requirements. Individual EU member states have been developing their own requirements including, for example, a SAF mandate in France that came into force on January 1, 2022.

All such climate change-related regulatory activity and developments may adversely affect our business and financial results by requiring us to reduce our emissions before cost-effective emissions reduction technologies are available, for example, through requirements to make capital investments to purchase specific types of equipment or technologies, purchase carbon offset credits, or otherwise incur additional costs related to our emissions. Such activity may also impact us indirectly by increasing our operating costs, including fuel costs. 

For more information on American’s approach to ESG issues, see our 2020 ESG Performance Review and 2019-2020 ESG Report at our website www.aa.com under “Environmental, Social and Governance.” None of the information or contents of our 2020 ESG Performance Review and 2019-2020 ESG Report are incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Impact of Regulatory Requirements on Our Business

Regulatory requirements, including but not limited to those discussed above, affect operations and increase operating costs for the airline industry, including our airline subsidiaries, and future regulatory developments may continue to do the same in the future. For additional information, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Evolving data security and privacy requirements could increase our costs, and any significant data security or privacy incident could disrupt our operations, harm our reputation, expose us to legal risks and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition,” “If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system and, at some airports, adequate slots, we may be unable to operate our existing flight schedule and to expand or change our route network in the future, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations,” “Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may result in increases in our costs, disruptions to our operations, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages,” “The airline industry is heavily taxed,” “We are subject to many forms of environmental and noise regulation and may incur substantial costs as a result,” and “We are subject to risks associated with climate change, including increased regulation of our CO2 emissions, changing consumer preferences and the potential increased impacts of severe weather events on our operations and infrastructure.”

Available Information

Use of Websites to Disclose Information

Our website is located at www.aa.com. We have made and expect in the future to make public disclosures to investors and the general public of information regarding AAG and its subsidiaries by means of the investor relations section of our website as well as through the use of our social media sites, including Facebook and Twitter. In order to receive notifications regarding new postings to our website, investors are encouraged to enroll on our website to receive automatic email alerts (see https://americanairlines.gcs-web.com/email-alerts), “follow” American (@AmericanAir) on Twitter and “like” American on our Facebook page (www.facebook.com/AmericanAirlines). None of the information or contents of our website or social media postings is incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

20
Availability of SEC Reports

A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

21
GLOSSARY OF TERMS

“2013 Credit Agreement” means the Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement dated as of May 21, 2015, among American, AAG, the lenders from time to time party thereto, Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as administrative agent, and certain other parties thereto, as amended.

“2013 Credit Facilities” means the 2013 Revolving Facility and 2013 Term Loan Facility provided for by the 2013 Credit Agreement.

“2013 Framework” means the criteria for internal control over financial reporting as set forth in the Internal Control – Internal Framework by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

“2013 Plan” means the AAG 2013 Incentive Award Plan.

“2013 Revolving Facility” means the revolving credit facility provided for by the 2013 Credit Agreement. 

“2013 Term Loan Facility” means the term loan facility provided for under the 2013 Credit Agreement.

“2014 Credit Agreement” means the Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of April 20, 2015, among American, AAG, the lenders from time to time party thereto, Citibank N.A., as administrative agent, and certain other parties thereto, as amended. 

“2014 Credit Facilities” means the 2014 Revolving Facility and the 2014 Term Loan Facility provided for by the 2014 Credit Agreement.

“2014 Revolving Facility” means the revolving credit facility provided for by the 2014 Credit Agreement. 

“2014 Term Loan Facility” means the term loan facility provided for by the 2014 Credit Agreement.

“2016 JFK Bonds” means special facility revenue bonds issued on behalf of American by NYTDC in June 2016.

“2020 Form 10-K” means AAG’s and American’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020.

“2020 JFK Bonds” means special facility revenue bonds issued on behalf of American by NYTDC in June 2020.

“2021 JFK Bonds” means special facility revenue bonds NYTDC issued in June 2021.

“2021-1 Aircraft” means the 26 aircraft financed or to be financed by American under the 2021-1 Aircraft EETCs.

“2021-1 Aircraft EETCs” means the two pass-through trusts created by American in November 2021 that have issued approximately $960 million aggregate face amount of Series 2021-1 Class A and Class B EETCs.

“2026 Notes” means the AAdvantage Issuers' 5.50% senior secured notes due 2026.

“2029 Notes” means the AAdvantage Issuers' 5.75% senior secured notes due 2029.

“3.75% Senior Notes” mean 3.75% senior notes due 2025 with an aggregate principal amount of $500 million.

“5.000% Senior Notes” means the 5.000% senior notes due in 2022 with an aggregate principal amount of $750 million. 

“10.75% Senior Secured Notes” means, collectively, the LGA/DCA Notes and the IP Notes.

“10.75% Senior Secured Notes Closing Date” means September 25, 2020.

“10.75% Senior Secured Notes Collateral” means the IP Collateral and LGA/DCA Collateral. 

“10.75% Senior Secured Notes Indentures” means the IP Notes Indenture and the LGA/DCA Notes Indenture.

“10.75% Senior Secured Notes Trustee” means Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee with respect to the 10.75% Senior Secured Notes.

“11.75% Senior Secured Notes” means the 11.75% senior secured notes due in 2025 with an aggregate principal amount of $2.5 billion.

22
“11.75% Senior Secured Notes Collateral” means the First Lien 11.75% Senior Secured Notes Collateral and the Second Lien 11.75% Senior Secured Notes Collateral.

“11.75% Senior Secured Notes Indenture” means the indenture, dated as of June 30, 2020, by and among American, AAG and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee.

“11.75% Senior Secured Notes Trustee” means Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee with respect to the 11.75% Senior Secured Notes.

“AAdvantage” means the AAdvantage® frequent flyer program.

“AAdvantage Agreements” means the AAdvantage program agreements provided as collateral under the AAdvantage Financing.

“AAdvantage Collateral” means the AAdvantage Agreements (including all payments thereunder) and rights under an intercompany agreement and certain IP Licenses, certain rights under the AAdvantage program, certain deposit accounts that will receive cash under the AAdvantage Agreements, certain reserve accounts, the equity of each of Loyalty Issuer and the SPV Guarantors and substantially all other assets of Loyalty Issuer and the SPV Guarantors.

“AAdvantage Financing” means the AAdvantage Notes and the AAdvantage Term Loan Facility.

“AAdvantage Financing Closing Date” means March 24, 2021. 

“AAdvantage Guarantees” means the AAdvantage Note Guarantees, together with the full and unconditional guarantee of the AAdvantage Loans by the AAdvantage Guarantors.

“AAdvantage Guarantors” means the SPV Guarantors and AAG.

“AAdvantage Indenture” means the indenture, dated as of March 24, 2021, by and among the AAdvantage Issuers, the AAdvantage Guarantors and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee and as collateral custodian.

“AAdvantage Issuers” means the Loyalty Issuer and American.

“AAdvantage Loans” means the $3.5 billion of term loans provided pursuant to the AAdvantage Term Loan Facility.

“AAdvantage Note Guarantees” means the full and unconditional guarantee of the AAdvantage Notes by the AAdvantage Guarantors.

“AAdvantage Notes” means, collectively, the 2026 Notes and the 2029 Notes.

“AAdvantage Payment Date” means, with respect to the payment of interest on the AAdvantage Notes and AAdvantage Loans, the 20th day of each January, April, July and October.

“AAdvantage Term Loan Facility” means the $3.5 billion term loan facility provided pursuant to the term loan credit and guaranty agreement, dated as of March 24, 2021, with Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as collateral administrator, and the lenders party thereto.

“AAG”, “we”, “us”, “our” and similar terms means American Airlines Group Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

“AAL” means the trading symbol under which AAG common stock is listed and traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.

“AFA” means Association of Flight Attendants-CWA. 

“ALPA” means Air Line Pilots Association.

“American” means American Airlines, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of AAG.

“American Eagle” means our regional carriers, including our wholly-owned regional carriers Envoy, PSA and Piedmont, as well as third-party regional carriers including Mesa, Republic and SkyWest. 

“AMR” or “AMR Corporation” means AMR Corporation and is used to reference AAG during the period of time prior to its emergence from Chapter 11 and the Merger. 

23
“AOCI” means accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

“APA” means Allied Pilots Association. 

“APFA” means Association of Professional Flight Attendants.

“April 2016 Credit Agreement” means the Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2016, among American, AAG, the lenders from time to time party thereto, Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent, and certain other parties thereto, as amended.

“April 2016 Credit Facilities” means the April 2016 Revolving Facility and April 2016 Spare Parts Term Loan Facility provided for by the 2016 Credit Agreement.

“April 2016 Revolving Facility” means the revolving credit facility provided for by the April 2016 Credit Agreement.

“April 2016 Spare Parts Term Loan Facility” means the term loan facility provided for by the April 2016 Credit Agreement.

“ARP” means the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021.

“ASM” means available seat mile and is a basic measure of production. One ASM represents one seat flown one mile. 

“ASU” means Accounting Standards Update.

“ATC” means air traffic control.

“ATC system” means the U.S. National Airspace System.

“Aviation Act” means subtitle VII of Title 49 of the United States Code, as amended.

“Bankruptcy Court” means the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York.

“Base Indenture” means the indenture, dated as of June 25, 2020, between AAG and the Convertible Notes Trustee.

“Boeing” means The Boeing Company.

“BOS” means Boston Logan International Airport.

“Bylaws” means AAG’s Amended and Restated Bylaws, as amended.

“CARES Act” means the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act. 

“CASM” means total operating cost per available seat mile and is equal to total operating expenses divided by ASMs. 

“CBAs” means collective bargaining agreements. 

“CEO” means Chief Executive Officer. 

“CFO” means Chief Financial Officer. 

“Chapter 11 Cases” means the voluntary petitions for relief filed on November 29, 2011 by the Debtors. 

“China Southern Airlines” means China Southern Airlines Company Limited. 

“CMA” means the United Kingdom Competition and Markets Authority. 

“CO2” means carbon dioxide. 

“Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

“Company” means AAG and its consolidated subsidiaries.

“Convertible Notes” means AAG’s 6.50% convertible senior notes due 2025.

“Convertible Notes Indenture” means the Base Indenture and the Convertible Notes Supplemental Indenture.

24
“Convertible Notes Guarantee” means the full and unconditional guarantee of the Convertible Notes by American. 

“Convertible Notes Supplemental Indenture” means the first supplemental indenture, dated as of June 25, 2020, among AAG, American and the Convertible Notes Trustee.

“Convertible Notes Trustee” means Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee with respect to the Convertible Notes.

“CORSIA” means the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation. 

“COVID-19” refers to a respiratory illness first detected in 2019 and the ensuing global pandemic that remains ongoing as of the date of this report.

“Credit Facilities” means, collectively, the 2013 Credit Facilities, 2014 Credit Facilities, April 2016 Credit Facilities and December 2016 Credit Facilities.

“CWA” means Communications Workers of America. 

“CWA-IBT” means the Airline Employees Customer Service Association – Communications Workers of America and International Brotherhood of Teamsters.

“DCA” means Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.

“DCR” means disputed claims reserve, a reserve established by the Bankruptcy Court, pursuant to the Plan, to hold shares of AAG common stock for issuance to disputed claimholders as of the Effective Date or, alternatively, to former holders of AMR common stock or former holders of certain AMR convertible notes.

“DC Court” means the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia. 

“Debtors” means AMR, American, and certain of AMR’s other direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries. 

“December 2016 Credit Agreement” means the Credit and Guaranty Agreement dated as of December 15, 2016, among American, AAG, the lenders from time to time party thereto, Citibank N.A., as administrative agent, and certain other parties thereto, as amended.

“December 2016 Credit Facilities” means, collectively, the December 2016 Term Loan Facility and the revolving credit facility that may be established under the December 2016 Credit Agreement.

“December 2016 Term Loan Facility” means the term loan facility provided for under the December 2016 Credit Agreement.

“DEI” means diversity, equity and inclusion.

“Delayed Draw Term Loan Credit Facility” means the Credit and Guaranty Agreement dated as of March 18, 2020, among American, AAG, the lenders from time to time party thereto, Citibank N.A., as administrative agent, and certain other parties thereto, as amended. 

“DOJ” means the United States Department of Justice.

“DOT” means the United States Department of Transportation. 

“DOT Agreement” means the agreement reached between the DOT, American, and JetBlue in January 2021, following the termination of DOT’s review of the NEA.

“EC” means the European Commission. 

“EETC” means enhanced equipment trust certificate. 

“Effective Date” means December 9, 2013. 

“Eighth Amendment” means the Eighth Amendment entered into in January 2020 to the 2014 Credit Agreement.

“Envoy” means Envoy Air Inc.

25
“EPA” means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

“EPS” means earnings (loss) per common share.

“ERISA” means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.

“Ethics Standards” means AAG’s and American’s Standards of Business Conduct. 

“ETS” means Emission Trading Scheme. 

“EU” means European Union. 

"EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement" means the trade and cooperation agreement between the EU and United Kingdom.

"eVTOL" means electric vertical take-off and landing.

"EWR" means Newark Liberty International Airport.

“Exchange Act” means Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

“FAA” means Federal Aviation Administration.

“First Lien 11.75% Senior Secured Notes Collateral” means certain assets, rights and properties utilized by American in providing its scheduled air carrier services to and from certain airports in the United States and certain airports in Australia, Canada, the Caribbean, Central America, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and Switzerland which are used to secure the 11.75% Senior Secured Notes on a first-lien basis. 

“GAAP” means generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S.

“GDSs” means global distribution systems.

“GHG” means greenhouse gas.

“GOL” means GOL Linhas Aéreas Inteligentes S.A.

“GSPC” means S&P 500 Index.

“holdback” means an amount of cash held by our credit card processors in certain circumstances (including, with respect to certain agreements, our failure to maintain certain levels of liquidity).

“HoldCo2” means AAdvantage Holdings 2, Ltd., a Cayman Islands exempted company incorporated with limited liability and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of American and the direct parent of Loyalty Issuer.

“IAM” means International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers. 

“IAM Pension Fund” means the IAM National Pension Fund.

“IBT” means International Brotherhood of Teamsters. 

“ICAO” means International Civil Aviation Organization. 

“IP Collateral” means certain intellectual property of American, including the “American Airlines” trademark and the “aa.com” domain name in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, to which American has given a first lien security interest to secure the IP Notes.

“IP Licenses” means the series of intercompany license agreements pursuant to which an exclusive, irrevocable (subject to certain termination rights), perpetual, worldwide, royalty-bearing sublicense to use the Transferred AAdvantage IP was granted indirectly by Loyalty Issuer to American.

“IP Notes” means American’s $1.0 billion in initial principal amount of 10.75% senior secured IP notes.

“IP Notes Indenture” means the indenture, dated as of September 25, 2020, by and among American, AAG and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee and as collateral trustee, pursuant to which the IP Notes were issued. 

26
“JCBA” means joint collective bargaining agreement.

“JetBlue” means JetBlue Airways Corporation.

“JetSMART” means JetSmart Airlines SpA.

“JFK” means John F. Kennedy International Airport.

“LAWA” means the Los Angeles World Airports.

“LAX” means Los Angeles International Airport. 

“LEED” means U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design.

“LGA/DCA Collateral” means certain slots related to American’s operations at LGA and DCA and certain other assets that are used as (a) a first-lien security interest to secure the December 2016 Credit Facilities, (b) a first lien security interest to secure the LGA/DCA Notes and (c) a second lien security interest to secure the IP Notes.

“LGA/DCA Notes” means American’s $200 million in initial principal amount of 10.75% senior secured LGA/DCA notes. 

“LGA/DCA Notes Indenture” means the indenture, dated as of September 25, 2020, by and among American, AAG and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee and as collateral trustee, pursuant to which the LGA/DCA Notes were issued. 

“LGA” means LaGuardia Airport. 

“LGW” or “London Gatwick” means London Gatwick Airport. 

“LHR” or “London Heathrow” means London Heathrow Airport.

“LIBOR” means the London interbank offered rate for deposits of U.S. dollars.

“Loyalty Issuer” means AAdvantage Loyalty IP Ltd., a Cayman Islands exempted company incorporated with limited liability and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of American and co-issuer of the AAdvantage Notes.

“LTV” means loan to value ratio.

“Madrid IP SCS” means Madrid IP Lux HoldCo SCS, a Luxembourg common limited partnership (société en commandite simple) and an indirect subsidiary of Loyalty Issuer.

“Madrid SPV Guarantors” means certain Luxembourg limited liability companies and partnerships that are direct or indirect subsidiaries of Loyalty Issuer and which fully and unconditionally guarantee the AAdvantage Financing. 

“Mainline” means the operations of American and excludes regional operations. 

“marketing component” means, with respect to the AAdvantage program, the use of intellectual property, including the American brand and access to loyalty program member lists, which is the predominant element in the co-branded credit card agreements, as well as advertising.

“Merger” means the merger of US Airways Group and AMR Corporation on December 9, 2013. 

“Mesa” means Mesa Airlines, Inc.

“MOU” means memorandum of understanding.

"NEA" means Northeast Alliance arrangement between American and JetBlue.

“NMB” means National Mediation Board. 

“NOLs” means net operating losses. 

“NYSE” means the New York Stock Exchange.

“NYTDC” means the New York Transportation Development Corporation.

27
“ORD” means Chicago O’Hare International Airport.

“Original SPV Guarantors” means AAdvantage Holdings 1, Ltd. and HoldCo2.

“OSHA” means Occupational Health and Safety Administration.

“OTAs” means online travel agents.

“PAFCA” means Professional Airline Flight Control Association.

“Passenger load factor” means the percentage of available seats that are filled with revenue passengers. 

“PCAOB” means the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in the U.S.

“PEB” means Presidential Emergency Board. 

“PFAS” means per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances.

“Piedmont” means Piedmont Airlines, Inc. 

“Plan” means the Debtors’ fourth amended joint plan of reorganization. 

“PRASM” means passenger revenue per available seat mile and is equal to passenger revenues divided by ASMs. 

“Proxy Statement” means American Airlines Group Inc.’s Proxy Statement for the 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of American Airlines Group Inc. 

“PSA” means PSA Airlines, Inc.

“PSP1” means the payroll support program established under the CARES Act. 

“PSP1 Agreement” means the Payroll Support Program Agreement entered into by the Subsidiaries with Treasury on the PSP1 Closing Date.

“PSP1 Closing Date” means April 20, 2020.

“PSP1 Financial Assistance” means the portion of financial assistance received from Treasury pursuant to the PSP1 Agreement that is not allocated to the PSP1 Warrants or PSP1 Promissory Note.

“PSP1 Maturity Date” means the tenth anniversary of the PSP1 Closing Date.

“PSP1 Promissory Note” means the promissory note issued to Treasury in connection with PSP1.

“PSP1 Warrant Agreement” means the agreement entered into between AAG and Treasury in connection with the PSP1 Agreement, pursuant to which AAG issued PSP1 Warrants to Treasury to purchase up to an aggregate of approximately 14.1 million shares of AAG common stock. 

“PSP1 Warrants” means the warrants issued or to be issued to Treasury pursuant to the PSP1 Warrant Agreement.

“PSP1 Warrant Shares” means up to approximately 14.1 million shares of AAG common stock which Treasury will have the right to purchase pursuant to PSP1 Warrants issued by AAG in accordance with the PSP1 Warrant Agreement.

“PSP2” means the payroll support program established under the PSP Extension Law. 

“PSP2 Agreement” means the Payroll Support Program Extension Agreement entered into by the Subsidiaries with Treasury on the PSP2 Closing Date.

“PSP2 Closing Date” means January 15, 2021.

“PSP2 Financial Assistance” means the portion of financial assistance received from Treasury pursuant to the PSP2 Agreement that is not allocated to the PSP2 Warrants or PSP2 Promissory Note.

“PSP2 Maturity Date” means the tenth anniversary of the PSP2 Closing Date.

28
“PSP2 Promissory Note” means the promissory note issued to Treasury in connection with PSP2.

“PSP2 Warrant Agreement” means the agreement entered into between AAG and Treasury in connection with the PSP2 Agreement, pursuant to which AAG issued PSP2 Warrants to Treasury to purchase the PSP2 Warrant Shares. 

“PSP2 Warrant Shares” means up to an aggregate of approximately 6.6 million shares of AAG common stock which Treasury will have the right to purchase pursuant to PSP2 Warrants issued or to be issued by AAG in accordance with the PSP2 Warrant Agreement. 

“PSP2 Warrants” means the warrants issued or to be issued to Treasury pursuant to the PSP2 Warrant Agreement. 

“PSP3” means the payroll support program established under the ARP. 

“PSP3 Agreement” means the Payroll Support Program Agreement entered into by the Subsidiaries with Treasury on the PSP3 Closing Date.

“PSP3 Closing Date” means April 23, 2021.

“PSP3 Financial Assistance” means the portion of financial assistance received from Treasury pursuant to the PSP3 Agreement that is not allocated to the PSP3 Warrants or PSP3 Promissory Note.

“PSP3 Maturity Date” means the tenth anniversary of the PSP3 Closing Date.

“PSP3 Promissory Note” means the promissory note issued to Treasury in connection with PSP3.

“PSP3 Warrant Agreement” means the agreement entered into between AAG and Treasury in connection with the PSP3 Agreement, pursuant to which AAG issued PSP3 Warrants to Treasury to purchase the PSP3 Warrant Shares.

“PSP3 Warrant Shares” means up to an aggregate of approximately 4.4 million shares of AAG common stock which Treasury will have the right to purchase pursuant to PSP3 Warrants issued or to be issued by AAG in accordance with the PSP3 Warrant Agreement. 

“PSP3 Warrants” means the warrants issued or to be issued to Treasury pursuant to the PSP3 Warrant Agreement.

“PSP Extension Law” means Subtitle A of Title IV of Division N of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021.

“Rehabilitation Plan” means the rehabilitation plan adopted by the IAM Pension Fund on April 17, 2019.

“Republic” means Republic Airways Inc. 

“Republic Holdings” means Republic Airways Holdings Inc., the parent company of Republic.

“RLA” means Railway Labor Act. 

“ROU” means right-of-use. 

“RPM” or “RPMs” means revenue passenger mile or miles and is a basic measure of sales volume. One RPM represents one passenger flown one mile. 

“RSUs” means restricted stock units. 

“S&P” means Standard and Poor’s Financial Services, LLC.

“SAF” means sustainable aviation fuel.

“SAIB” means special airworthiness information bulletin.

“SEC” means Securities and Exchange Commission.

“Second Lien 11.75% Senior Secured Notes Collateral” means certain assets, rights and properties utilized by American in providing its scheduled air carrier services to and from certain airports in the United States and certain airports in the European Union and the United Kingdom which are used to secure the 11.75% Senior Secured Notes on a second-lien basis.

29
“Section 382” means Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. 

“Securities Act” means Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 

“SkyWest” means SkyWest Airlines, Inc. 

“slots” means landing and take-off rights and authorizations, as required by certain airports. 

“SOFR” means the Secured Overnight Financing Rate. 

“SPV Guarantors” means the Original SPV Guarantors and the Madrid SPV Guarantors.

“Subsidiaries” means American, Envoy, PSA and Piedmont, each a wholly-owned subsidiary of AAG.

“Superfund Act” means Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act.

“Tax Benefits Preservation Plan” means the tax benefits preservation plan adopted by the Board of Directors of AAG in December 2021 in order to preserve the Company’s ability to use its NOLs and certain other tax attributes to reduce potential future income tax obligations.

“Terminal” means the passenger terminal facility used by American at JFK.

“Transferred AAdvantage IP” means, among other things, American’s rights to certain data and other intellectual property used in the AAdvantage program (subject to certain exceptions).

“TRASM” means the total revenue per available seat mile and is equal to the total revenues divided by total mainline and third-party regional carrier ASMs. 

“Treasury” means the U.S. Department of the Treasury. 

“Treasury Loan Agreement” means the Loan and Guarantee Agreement, dated as of September 25, 2020, between AAG, American and Treasury which provides for the Treasury Term Loan Facility.

“Treasury Loan Closing Date” means September 25, 2020.

“Treasury Loan Warrant Agreement” means the warrant agreement, dated as of September 25, 2020, between AAG and Treasury entered into in connection with the Treasury Loan Agreement, pursuant to which AAG issued Treasury Loan Warrants to Treasury to purchase shares of AAG common stock.

“Treasury Loan Warrants” means the warrants issued to Treasury pursuant to the Treasury Loan Warrant Agreement.

“Treasury Loan Warrant Shares” means the shares of AAG common stock which Treasury will have the right to purchase pursuant to Treasury Loan Warrants issued by AAG in accordance with the Treasury Loan Warrant Agreement.

“Treasury Term Loan Facility” means the term loan facility provided for under the Treasury Loan Agreement.

“TSA” means Transportation Security Administration. 

“TWU” means Transport Workers Union.

“TWU-IAM Association” means Transport Workers Union and International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers.

“US Airways Group” means US Airways Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

“USTR” means the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative.

“Vertical” means Vertical Aerospace Ltd.

“WTO” means World Trade Organization. 

“XAL” means NYSE ARCA Airline Index. 

“Yield” means a measure of airline revenue derived by dividing passenger revenue by RPMs. 

30
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS