Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors and Other Disclosures  2021 Form 10-K

Item 1A. Risk Factors

Summary Risks are categorized by (1) insurance and financial services, (2) business, strategy and operations and (3) macro, regulatory and risk environment. Many risks may affect more than one category and are included where the impact is most significant. If some of these risk factors occur, they may cause the emergence of or exacerbate the impact of other risk factors, which could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The table below includes examples of risks from each category.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Allstate Corporation Board of Directors (“Allstate Board”) has overall responsibility for oversight of Management’s design and implementation of our Enterprise Risk and Return Management (“ERRM”) framework that manages risk on an integrated basis following our risk and return principles. The Risk and Return Committee of the Allstate Board oversees effectiveness of the ERRM program, governance structure and risk-related decision-making, while focusing on the Company’s overall risk profile.

 See Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”), Enterprise Risk and Return Management for further details. 

Consider these cautionary statements carefully together with other factors discussed elsewhere in this document, in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) or in materials incorporated therein by reference.

Insurance and financial services

Unexpected increases in the frequency or severity of property and casualty claims may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition

A significant increase in claim frequency could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in mix of business, miles driven, weather, distracted driving or other factors can lead to changes in claim frequency. We may experience volatility in claim frequency, and short-term trends may not be predictive of future losses over the longer term. 

Increases in claim severity can arise from numerous causes that are inherently difficult to predict. The following factors have and may continue to impact claim severity for auto bodily injury, property damage and homeowners coverages: 

•Bodily injury — inflation in medical costs, duration of treatment, litigation trends and precedents and regulation 

•Vehicle property damage — inflation in repair costs, including parts and labor rates, mix of total losses declared, costs associated with repairing 

sophisticated newer vehicles, model year and used-car values

•Homeowners — inflation in the construction industry, building materials and home furnishings, changes in the mix of loss type, and other economic and environmental factors, including short-term supply imbalances for services and supplies in areas affected by catastrophes

Catastrophes and severe weather events may subject us to significant losses

Catastrophic events could adversely affect operating results and cause them to vary significantly from one period to the next. Also, our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which could result in extraordinary losses, sales of investments or a downgrade of our debt or financial strength ratings. 

Catastrophic losses are caused by wind and hail, wildfires, tornadoes, hurricanes, tropical storms, earthquakes, severe freeze events, volcanic eruptions, terrorism, cyber-attacks, civil unrest, industrial accidents and other such events.

Our personal property insurance business may incur catastrophe losses greater than: 

•Those experienced in prior years 

•The average expected level used in pricing 

The Allstate Corporation 21

2021 Form 10-K Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors and Other Disclosures

•Current reinsurance coverage limits 

•Loss estimates from hurricane and earthquake models at various levels of probability 

Property and casualty businesses are subject to claims arising from severe weather events such as winter storms, rain, hail and high winds. The incidence and severity of weather conditions resulting in claims are extremely volatile. 

The total number of policyholders affected by the event, the severity of the event and the coverage provided contribute to catastrophe and severe weather losses. Increases in the insured values of covered property, geographic concentration and the number of policyholders exposed to certain events could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic and severe weather events. 

Limitations in analytical models used to assess and predict the exposure to catastrophe losses may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition 

We use internally developed and third-party vendor models along with our own historical data to assess exposure to catastrophe losses. The models assume various conditions and probability scenarios and may not accurately predict future losses or measure losses currently incurred. 

Price competition and changes in regulation and underwriting standards in property and casualty businesses may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition 

The personal property-liability market is highly competitive with carriers competing through underwriting, advertising, price, customer service, innovation and distribution. Changes in regulatory standards regarding underwriting and rates could also affect the ability to predict future losses and could impact profitability. Companies can alter underwriting standards, lower prices and increase advertising, which could result in lower growth or profitability for Allstate. A decline in the growth or profitability of the property and casualty businesses could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Property and casualty actual claims costs may exceed current reserves established for claims due to changes in the inflationary, regulatory and litigation environment

Estimating claim reserves is an inherently uncertain and complex process. We continually refine our best estimates of losses after considering known facts and interpretations of the circumstances.

Our reserving methodology may be impacted by the following:

•Models that rely on the assumption that past loss development patterns will persist into the future

•Internal factors including experience with similar cases, actual claims paid, historical trends involving claim payment patterns, pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix, contractual terms and changes in claim reporting and settlement practices

•External factors such as inflation, court decisions, changes in law or litigation imposing unintended coverage, regulatory requirements, changes in driving patterns and economic conditions

•Supply chain disruptions and labor shortages could increase the cost of settling claims

•The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded reserves and such variance may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition as the reserves and amounts due from reinsurers are reestimated.

 See MD&A, Application of Critical Accounting Estimates for further details.

Our investment portfolios are subject to market risk and declines in quality which may adversely affect or create volatility in our investment income and cause realized and unrealized losses

We continually evaluate investment management strategies since we are subject to risk of loss due to adverse changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate values, currency exchange rates and liquidity. Adverse changes may occur due to changes in monetary and fiscal policy and the economic climate, liquidity of a market or market segment, investor return expectations or risk tolerance, insolvency or financial distress of key market makers or participants, or changes in market perceptions of credit worthiness. Adverse changes in market conditions could cause the value of our investments to decrease significantly and impact our results of operations and financial condition.

Our investments are subject to risks associated with economic and capital market conditions and factors that may be unique to our portfolio, including:

•General weakening of the economy, which is typically reflected through higher credit spreads and lower equity and real estate valuations

•Declines in credit quality 

•Declines in market interest rates, credit spreads or sustained low interest rates could lead to further declines in portfolio yields and investment income 

•Increases in market interest rates, credit spreads or a decrease in liquidity could have an adverse effect on the value of our fixed income securities that form a substantial majority of our investment portfolios

•Supply chain disruptions, labor shortages and other factors have and may continue to increase inflation, which could have an adverse impact on investment valuations and returns.

•Weak performance of general and joint venture partners and underlying investments unrelated to general market or economic conditions could lead to declines in investment income and cause realized losses in our limited partnership interests

•Concentration in any particular issuer, industry, collateral type, group of related industries, geographic sector or risk type

22 www.allstate.com

 Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors and Other Disclosures  2021 Form 10-K

The amount and timing of net investment income, capital contributions and distributions from our performance-based investments, which primarily include limited partnership interests, can fluctuate significantly due to the underlying investments’ performance or changes in market or economic conditions. Additionally, these investments are less liquid than similar, publicly-traded investments and a decline in market liquidity could impact our ability to sell them at their current carrying values.

Declining equity markets or increases in interest rates or credit spreads could cause the value of the investments in our pension plans to decrease. Declines in interest rates could cause the funding ratio to decline and the value of the obligations for our pension and postretirement plans to increase. These factors could decrease the funded status of our pension and postretirement plans, increasing the likelihood or magnitude of future benefit expense and contributions. 

Determination of the fair value and amount of credit losses for investments includes subjective judgments and could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition

The valuation of the portfolio is subjective, and the value of assets may differ from the actual amount received upon the sale of an asset. The degree of judgment required in determining fair values increases when: 

•Market observable information is less readily available

•The use of different valuation assumptions may have a material effect on the assets’ fair values 

•Changing market conditions could materially affect the fair value of investments

The determination of the amount of credit losses varies by investment type and is based on ongoing evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class or investment.

Such evaluations and assessments are highly judgmental and are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.

We update our evaluations regularly and reflect changes in credit losses in our results of operations. Our conclusions may ultimately prove to be incorrect as assumptions, facts and circumstances change. Historical loss trends, consideration of current conditions, and forecasts may not be indicative of future changes in credit losses and additional amounts may need to be recorded in the future.

Our participation in indemnification programs subjects us to the risk that reimbursement for qualifying claims and claims expenses may not be received

Participation in state-based industry pools, facilities and associations as well as the National Flood Insurance Program may have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our largest exposure is associated with the Michigan 

Catastrophic Claim Association (“MCCA”), a state-mandated indemnification mechanism for qualified personal injury protection losses that exceed a specified level. To the extent the MCCA’s current and future assessments are insufficient to reimburse its ultimate obligation on existing claims to member companies, our ability to obtain the 100% indemnification of ultimate loss could be impaired. 

 For further discussion of these items, see Regulation section, Indemnification Programs and Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements.

We may not be able to mitigate the impact associated with changes in capital requirements

Regulatory requirements affect the amount of capital to be maintained by our subsidiary insurance companies. Changes to requirements or regulatory interpretations may result in additional capital held in our insurance companies and could require us to increase prices, reduce our sales of certain products, or accept a return on equity below original levels assumed in pricing.

A downgrade in financial strength ratings may have an adverse effect on our business

Financial strength ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and their access to capital markets. Rating agencies could downgrade or change the outlook on our ratings due to:

•Changes in the financial profile of one of our insurance companies

•Changes in a rating agency’s determination of the amount of capital required to maintain a particular rating

•Increases in the perceived risk of our investment portfolio, a reduced confidence in management or our business strategy, or other considerations that may or may not be under our control

A downgrade in our ratings could have an adverse effect on our sales, competitiveness, customer retention, the marketability of our product offerings, liquidity, access to and cost of borrowing, results of operations and financial condition.

Business, strategy and operations

We operate in markets that are highly competitive and may be impacted by new or changing technologies

Markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we must continually allocate resources to refine and improve products and services to remain competitive. If we are unsuccessful in generating new business, retaining customers or renewing contracts, our ability to maintain or increase premiums written or the ability to sell our products could be adversely impacted.

Determining competitive position is complicated in the auto and homeowners insurance business as 

The Allstate Corporation 23

2021 Form 10-K Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors and Other Disclosures

companies use different underwriting standards to accept new customers and quotes and close rates can fluctuate across companies and locations. Pricing of products is driven by multiple factors, including loss expectations, expense structure and dissimilar return targets. Additionally, sophisticated pricing algorithms make it difficult to determine what price potential customers would pay across competitors.

There is also significant competition for producers, such as exclusive and independent agents and their licensed sales professionals. Growth and retention may be materially affected if we are unable to attract and retain effective producers or if those producers are unable to attract and retain their licensed sales professionals or customers. Similarly, growth and retention may be impacted if customer preferences change and we are unable to effectively adapt our business model and processes. 

Our business could also be affected by technological changes, such as autonomous or partially autonomous vehicles or technologies that facilitate ride, car or home sharing. Such changes could disrupt the demand for products from current customers, create coverage issues, impact the frequency or severity of losses, or reduce the size of the automobile insurance market causing our auto insurance business to decline. Since auto insurance constitutes a significant portion of our overall business, we may be more sensitive than other insurers and more adversely affected by trends that could decrease auto insurance rates or reduce demand for auto insurance over time.

Technological advancements and innovation are occurring in distribution, underwriting, claims and operations at a rapid pace that may continue to accelerate. Nontraditional competitors could enter the insurance market and further accelerate these trends. Innovations must be implemented in compliance with applicable insurance regulations and may require extensive modifications to our systems and processes and extensive coordination with and reliance on the systems and operations of third parties. If we are unable to adapt to or bring such advancements and innovations to market, the quality of our products, our relationships with customers and agents, competitive position and business prospects may be materially affected. Changes in technology related to collection and application of data regarding customers could expose us to regulatory or legal actions and may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. 

Technology and customer preference changes may impact the ways in which we interact, do business with our customers and design our products. We may not be able to respond effectively to these changes, which could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Our ability to adequately and effectively price our products and services is affected by the evolving nature of consumer needs and preferences, market and regulatory dynamics, broader use of telematics-based rate segmentation and potential reduction in consumer demand.

Many voluntary benefits contracts are renewed annually. There is a risk that employers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors than they could by renewing coverage with us. These competitive pressures may adversely affect the renewal of these contracts, as well as our ability to sell products.

Transformative Growth strategy implementation may not be effective

The Transformative Growth strategy is to accelerate growth by expanding customer access, improving customer value, increasing the level and sophistication of new customer acquisition and deploying new technology applications. The strategy encompasses all aspects of Allstate’s customer experience and business model, spanning product distribution and sales, operations and servicing, and claims processing. If the strategy is not implemented effectively, customer retention and policy growth objectives could be adversely impacted. Lost business opportunities may result due to slower than anticipated speed to market. External forces including competitor actions or regulatory changes may also have an adverse effect on the value generated from the transformation.

Our catastrophe management strategy may adversely affect premium growth

Catastrophe risk management actions have negatively impacted the size of our homeowners business and customer retention, including customers with auto and other personal lines products and may negatively impact future sales if further actions are taken. Adjustments to our business structure, size and underwriting practices in markets with significant severe weather and catastrophe risk exposure could adversely impact premium growth rates and retention.

The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends may affect our liquidity and ability to meet our obligations

The Allstate Corporation is a holding company with no significant operations. Its principal assets are the stock of its subsidiaries and its directly held cash and investment portfolios. Its liabilities include debt and pension and other postretirement benefit obligations related to Allstate Insurance Company employees. State insurance regulatory authorities limit the payment of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, as described in Note 17 of the consolidated financial statements. The limitations are based on statutory income and surplus. In addition, competitive pressures generally require the subsidiaries to maintain insurance financial strength ratings. These restrictions and other regulatory requirements may affect the ability of subsidiaries to make dividend payments. Limits on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay dividends could adversely affect holding company liquidity, including the ability to pay dividends to shareholders, service debt or complete share repurchase programs as planned.

24 www.allstate.com

 Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors and Other Disclosures  2021 Form 10-K

Changes in regulatory or rating agency capital requirements could decrease deployable capital and potentially reduce future dividends paid by our insurance companies. 

 For a discussion of capital requirements, including a potential change to a group capital calculation, see Regulation section, Limitations on Dividends by Insurance Subsidiaries.

Our ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock is subject to limitations under terms of certain of our securities

The terms of the outstanding subordinated debentures prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on our common or preferred stock or redeeming, purchasing, acquiring or making liquidation payments on our common stock or preferred stock if we have elected to defer interest payments on the subordinated debentures, subject to certain limited exceptions.

We are prohibited from declaring or paying dividends on our Series G preferred stock if we fail to meet specified capital adequacy, net income or shareholders’ equity levels. The prohibition is subject to an exception permitting us to declare dividends out of the net proceeds of common stock issued by us during the 90 days before the date of declaration even if we fail to meet such levels.

 If the full preferred stock dividends for all preceding dividend periods have not been declared and paid, we generally may not repurchase or pay dividends on common stock during any dividend period while our preferred stock is outstanding.

 See Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements.

Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit our ability to write new business

Market conditions beyond our control impact the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase. Reinsurance may not remain continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms and rates as is currently available. Our ability to economically justify reinsurance to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated areas may depend on our ability to adjust premium rates to fully or partially recover cost. If we cannot maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts we consider sufficient at acceptable prices, we would have to either accept an increase in our catastrophe exposure, reduce our insurance exposure or seek other alternatives.

Reinsurance subjects us to counterparty risk and may not be adequate to protect us against losses arising from ceded insurance

Collecting from reinsurers is subject to uncertainty arising from factors that include:

•Whether reinsurers, their affiliates or certain indemnitors have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance treaty or contract

•Whether insured losses meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance contract

Our inability to recover from a reinsurer could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Disruption, volatility or uncertainty in the insurance linked securities market may decrease our ability to access such market on favorable terms or at all.

Acquisitions or divestitures of businesses may not produce anticipated benefits, resulting in operating difficulties, unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments

The ability to achieve certain anticipated financial benefits from the acquisition of businesses depends in part on our ability to successfully grow and integrate the businesses consistent with our anticipated acquisition economics. Financial results could be adversely affected by unanticipated performance issues, unforeseen liabilities, transaction-related charges, diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges or growth strategies, loss of key employees, challenges in integrating information technology systems of acquired companies with our own, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long-term assets or goodwill and indemnifications.

Acquired businesses may not perform as projected, cost savings anticipated from the acquisition may not materialize, and costs associated with the integration may be greater than anticipated. As a result, if we do not manage these transitions effectively, the quality of our products as well as our relationships with customers and partners may result in the company not achieving returns on its investment at the level projected at acquisition.

We also may divest businesses from time to time. These transactions may result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, such as through reinsurance, guarantees or other financial arrangements, following the transaction. If the acquiring companies do not perform under the arrangements, our financial results could be negatively impacted. 

We may be subject to the risks and costs associated with intellectual property infringement, misappropriation and third-party claims

We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect intellectual property and to determine its scope, validity or enforceability, which could divert significant resources and prove unsuccessful. An inability to protect intellectual property or an inability to successfully defend against a claim of intellectual property infringement could have a material effect on our business.

We may be subject to claims by third parties for patent, trademark or copyright infringement or breach of usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting 

The Allstate Corporation 25

2021 Form 10-K Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors and Other Disclosures

litigation could result in significant expense and liability. If third-party providers or we are found to have infringed a third-party intellectual property right, either of us could be enjoined from providing certain products or services or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. Alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement costly work-arounds. Any of these scenarios could have a material effect on our business and results of operations.

Macro, regulatory and risk environment

Conditions in the global economy and capital markets could adversely affect our business and results of operations

Global economic and capital market conditions could adversely impact demand for our products, returns on our investment portfolio and results of operations. The conditions that would have the largest impact on our business include: 

•Low or negative economic growth

•Interest rate levels 

•Rising inflation increasing claims and claims expense

•Substantial increases in delinquencies or defaults on debt

•Significant downturns in the market value or liquidity of our investment portfolio

•Reduced consumer spending and business investment

Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets or financial asset classes could adversely affect our investment portfolio. 

Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs or obtain credit on acceptable terms

In periods of extreme volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, liquidity and credit capacity may be severely restricted. Our access to additional financing depends on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as lenders’ perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. In such circumstances, our ability to obtain capital to fund operating expenses, financing costs, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited, and the cost of any such capital may be significant. 

A large-scale pandemic, the occurrence of terrorism, military actions, social unrest or other actions may have an adverse effect on our business

A large-scale pandemic, such as the Coronavirus and its impacts, the occurrence of terrorism, military actions, social unrest or other actions, may result in loss of life, property damage, and disruptions to 

commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets, changes in interest rates, reduced liquidity and economic activity caused by a large-scale pandemic. Additionally, a large-scale pandemic or terrorist act could have a material effect on sales, liquidity and operating results.

The Coronavirus resulted in governments worldwide enacting emergency measures to combat the spread of the virus, including travel restrictions, government-imposed shelter-in-place orders, quarantine periods, social distancing, and restrictions on large gatherings. These measures moderated in 2021 in certain locations as vaccines became more widely available in the United States and Canada. There is no way of predicting with certainty how long the pandemic might last. New variants of the Coronavirus may impact the potential for restrictions being restored or new restrictions being implemented that could result in further economic volatility. We continue to closely monitor and proactively adapt to developments and changing conditions. Currently, it is not possible to reliably estimate the impact to our operations, but the effects could be material. 

The Coronavirus has affected our operations and may continue to significantly affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, including:

•Sales of new and retention of existing policies

•Premium for transportation network products 

•Supply chain disruptions and labor shortages increase the cost of settling claims

•Hospital and outpatient claim costs 

•Investment valuations and returns

•Bad debt and credit allowance exposure

•Consumer utilization of Milewise®, our pay-per-mile insurance product 

•Retail sales in Allstate Protection Plans

 See MD&A, Highlights for a summary of the impacts of the Coronavirus on our operations, each of our segments and investments that may continue, emerge, evolve or accelerate into 2022.

The failure in cyber or other information security controls, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery processes and business continuity planning, could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation, additional costs and impair our ability to conduct business effectively

We depend heavily on computer systems, mathematical algorithms and data to perform necessary business functions. There are threats that could impact our ability to protect our data and systems; if the threats are successful, they could impact confidentiality, integrity and availability:

•Confidentiality — protecting our data from disclosure to unauthorized parties

•Integrity — ensuring data is not changed accidentally or without authorization and is accurate

26 www.allstate.com

 Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors and Other Disclosures  2021 Form 10-K

•Availability — ensuring our data and systems are accessible to meet our business needs 

We collect, use, store or transmit a large amount of confidential, proprietary and other information (including personal information of customers, claimants or employees) in connection with the operation of our business. Systems are subject to increased cyberattacks and unauthorized access, such as physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering.

We constantly defend against threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system failures and disruptions. We have experienced breaches of our data and systems, although to date none of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation. Events like these jeopardize the information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks and otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties or customer dissatisfaction.

These risks may increase in the future as threats become more sophisticated and we continue to expand internet and mobile strategies, develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our employees and customers, develop and expand products and services designed to protect customers’ digital footprint, and build and maintain an integrated digital enterprise.

Our increased use of third-party services (e.g., cloud technology and software as a service) can make it more difficult to identify and respond to cyberattacks in any of the above situations. Although we may review and assess third-party vendor cyber security controls, our efforts may not be successful in preventing or mitigating the effects of such events. Third parties to whom we outsource certain functions are also subject to cybersecurity risks. 

Personal information is subject to an increasing number of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations regarding privacy and data security, as well as contractual commitments. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such obligations may result in governmental enforcement actions and fines, litigation or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our employees and customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. 

 See the Regulation section, Privacy Regulation and Data Security, for additional information.

The occurrence of a disaster, such as a natural catastrophe, pandemic, industrial accident, blackout, terrorist attack, war, cyberattack, computer virus, insider threat, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery processes, or a support failure from external providers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those 

events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems or destroy data. If a significant number of employees were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. Our systems are also subject to compromise from internal threats.

Losses from changing climate and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, profitability or cash flows

Climate change affects the occurrence of certain natural events, such as increasing the frequency or severity of wind, tornado, hailstorm and thunderstorm events due to increased convection in the atmosphere. There could also be more frequent wildfires in certain geographies, more flooding and the potential for increased severity of hurricanes due to higher sea surface temperatures. As a result, incurred losses from such events and the demand, price and availability of reinsurance coverages for automobile and homeowners insurance may be affected.

Climate change may also impact insurability by impairing our ability to identify and quantify potential hazards that will result in losses and offer our customers products at an affordable price. Our investment portfolio is also subject to the effects of climate change as economic shifts alter the return dynamic of long-term investments and reduce valuations.

Due to significant variability associated with future changing climate conditions, we are unable to predict the impact climate change will have on our businesses.

We are subject to extensive regulation, and potential further restrictive regulation may increase operating costs and limit growth

Many of our affiliates operate in the highly regulated insurance and broader financial services sector and are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are complex and subject to change. Changes may lead to additional expenses, increased legal exposure, or increased reserve or capital requirements limiting our ability to grow or to achieve targeted profitability. Moreover, laws and regulations are administered and enforced by governmental authorities that exercise interpretive latitude, including:

•State insurance regulators 

•State securities administrators

•State attorneys general

•Federal agencies including the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the Department of Labor, the U.S. Department of Justice and the National Labor Relations Board

Consequently, compliance with one regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with another’s interpretation of the same issue.

There is risk that one regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may change 

The Allstate Corporation 27

2021 Form 10-K Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors and Other Disclosures

to our detriment. There is also a risk that changes in the overall legal environment may cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective. This could necessitate changes to our practices that may adversely impact our business. In some cases, state insurance laws and regulations are generally intended to protect or benefit purchasers or users of insurance products, not holders of securities that we issue. These laws and regulations may limit our ability to grow or to improve the profitability of our business.

In addition, increasing governmental and societal attention to environmental, social, and governance matters, including expanding mandatory and voluntary reporting, diligence, and disclosure on topics such as climate change, human capital, labor, and risk oversight, could expand the nature, scope, and complexity of matters that we are required to control, assess, and report.

A regulatory environment that requires rate increases to be approved, can dictate underwriting practices and mandate participation in loss sharing arrangements may adversely affect results of operations and financial condition

Political events and positions can affect the insurance market, including efforts to suppress rates to a level that may not allow us to reach targeted levels of profitability. Regulatory challenges to rate increases may restrict rate changes that may be required to achieve targeted levels of profitability and returns on equity. If we are unsuccessful, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. 

In addition, certain states have enacted laws that require an insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations. Certain states also require the insurer to offer coverage to all consumers, often restricting an insurer’s ability to charge the price it might otherwise charge for the risk acceptance. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower-than-desired rates, possibly leading to an unacceptable return on equity. Alternatively, as the facilities recognize a financial deficit, they could have the ability to assess participating insurers, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. Laws and regulations of many states also limit an insurer’s ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. Certain states require an insurer to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of these factors.

Regulatory reforms, and the more stringent application of existing regulations, may make it more expensive for us to conduct our business

The federal government has enacted comprehensive regulatory reforms for financial services entities. As part of a larger effort to strengthen the 

regulation of the financial services market, certain reforms are applicable to the insurance industry.

The Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) and Financial Stability Oversight Council have been established, and the federal government may enact reforms that affect the state insurance regulatory framework. The potential impact of state or federal measures that change the nature or scope of insurance and financial regulation is uncertain but may make it more expensive for us to conduct business and limit our ability to grow or achieve profitability.

We have business process and information technology operations in Canada, India and the United Kingdom that are subject to operating, regulatory and political risks in those countries. We may incur substantial costs and other negative consequences if any of these occur, including an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Losses from legal and regulatory actions may be material to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition

We are involved in various legal actions, including class-action litigation challenging a range of company practices and coverage provided by our insurance products, some of which involve claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts. We are also involved in various regulatory actions and inquiries, including market conduct exams by state insurance regulatory agencies. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in any of these matters, the ultimate liability may be more than amounts currently accrued or disclosed in our reasonably possible loss range and may be material to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

 See Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. 

Changes in or the application of accounting standards issued by standard-setting bodies and changes in tax laws may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition

Our financial statements are subject to the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which are periodically revised, interpreted or expanded. Accordingly, we may be required to adopt new guidance or interpretations, which may have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition and could adversely impact financial strength ratings.

•Market declines, changes in business strategies or other events impacting the fair value of goodwill or purchased intangible assets could result in an impairment charge to income 

•Realization of our deferred tax assets assumes that we can fully utilize the deductions recognized for tax purposes; we may recognize additional tax expense if these assets are not fully utilized

•New tax legislative initiatives may be enacted that may impact our effective tax rate and could adversely affect our tax positions or tax liabilities

28 www.allstate.com

 Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors and Other Disclosures  2021 Form 10-K

 See MD&A, Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements for further details.

Loss of key vendor relationships or failure of a vendor to protect our data, confidential and proprietary information, or personal information of our customers, claimants or employees could adversely affect our operations

We rely on services and products provided by many vendors in the U.S. and abroad. These include vendors of computer hardware, software, cloud technology and software as a service, as well as vendors or outsourcing of services such as:

•Claim adjustment services

•Call center services for customer support

•Human resource benefits management 

•Information technology support 

•Investment management services

If any vendor becomes unable to continue to provide products or services, or fails to protect our confidential, proprietary, and other information, we may suffer operational impairments and financial losses.

Our ability to attract, develop, and retain talent to maintain appropriate staffing levels and establish a successful work culture is critical to our success

Competition from within the insurance industry and from other industries, including the technology sector, for qualified employees with highly specialized knowledge in areas such as underwriting, data and analytics, technology and e-commerce, has often been intense and we have experienced increased competition in hiring and retaining employees. The increased prevalence of remote-working arrangements that do not require employees to relocate to take a new job could contribute to higher turnover.

Factors that affect our ability to attract and retain such employees include:

•Compensation and benefits

•Training and re-skilling programs

•Reputation as a successful business with a culture of fair hiring, and of training and promoting qualified employees

•Recognition of and response to changing trends and other circumstances that affect employees

The unexpected loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of the loss of their skills, knowledge of our products and offerings and years of industry experience and, in some cases, the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. 

Misconduct or fraudulent acts by employees, agents and third parties may expose us to financial loss, disruption of business, regulatory assessments and reputational harm 

The company and the insurance industry are inherently susceptible to past and future misconduct 

or fraudulent activities by employees, representative agents, vendors, customers and other third parties. These activities could include:

•Fraud against the company, its employees and its customers through illegal or prohibited activities 

•Unauthorized acts or representations, unauthorized use or disclosure of personal or proprietary information, deception, and misappropriation of funds or other benefits

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Properties