Item 7a.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

General

We are exposed to worldwide market risks that may impact our Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity due primarily to changing interest and foreign exchange rates. We do not currently engage in significant commodity hedging transactions for raw materials. The following discussion provides additional information regarding our market risks.

Interest Rates

Interest rate fluctuations expose variable-rate debt of the organization to changes in interest expense and cash flows. As of August 31, 2022, our long-term debt consisted primarily of fixed-rate senior unsecured notes. A fluctuation in interest rates would not affect interest expense or cash flows related to the Company’s fixed-rate debt. However, a 10% increase in market interest rates at August 31, 2022 would have decreased the estimated fair value of our senior unsecured notes by approximately $14.9 million. Additionally, as of August 31, 2022, we had $18.0 million of borrowings outstanding on our credit facility. Interest incurred on these borrowings is not significant to our overall results of operations. See the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for additional information.

Foreign Exchange Rates

The majority of our net sales, expense, and capital purchases are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, exposure with respect to foreign exchange rate fluctuation exists due to our operations in Mexico and Canada, where a significant portion of products sold are produced or sourced from the United States, and, to a lesser extent, in Europe. Based on fiscal 2022 performance, a hypothetical decline in the value of the Canadian dollar in relation to the U.S. dollar of 10% would negatively impact operating profit by approximately $13 million, while a hypothetical appreciation of 10% in the value of the Canadian dollar in relation to the U.S. dollar would favorably impact operating profit by approximately $16 million. In addition to products and services sold in Mexico, a significant portion of the goods sold in the United States are manufactured in Mexico. A hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the Mexican peso in relation to the U.S. dollar would favorably impact operating profit by approximately $15 million, while a hypothetical increase of 10% in the value of the Mexican peso in relation to the U.S. dollar would negatively impact operating profits by approximately $18 million. The individual impacts to the operating profit of hypothetical currency fluctuations in the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso have been calculated in isolation from any potential responses to address such exchange rate changes in our foreign markets.

Our exposure to foreign currency risk related to our operations in Europe is immaterial and has been excluded from this analysis. 

28
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.