PART I

Item 1. Business.

Company Overview

Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, provides a broad portfolio of essential healthcare products, including acute and chronic dialysis therapies; sterile intravenous (IV) solutions; infusion systems and devices; parenteral nutrition therapies; inhaled anesthetics; generic injectable pharmaceuticals; surgical hemostat and sealant products, advanced surgical equipment; smart bed systems; patient monitoring and diagnostic technologies; and respiratory health devices. These products are used by hospitals, kidney dialysis centers, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, doctors’ offices and by patients at home under physician supervision. Our global footprint and the critical nature of our products and services play a key role in expanding access to healthcare in emerging and developed countries. As of December 31, 2021, we manufactured products in over 20 countries and sold them in over 100 countries.

Baxter International Inc. was incorporated under Delaware law in 1931. As used in this report, “Baxter International” means Baxter International Inc. and “we", "our” or "us" means Baxter International and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires.

COVID-19

Our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises and epidemics/pandemics, such as the novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) and its variants. COVID-19 and its variants have had, and we expect will continue to have, an adverse impact on our operations, supply chains and distribution systems and have increased and we expect will continue to increase our expenses, including as a result of impacts associated with preventive and precautionary measures that we, other businesses and governments are taking. Initial measures taken by businesses and governments beginning in 2020 led to unprecedented restrictions on, disruptions in, and other related impacts on business and personal activities, including a shift in healthcare priorities, which resulted in a significant decline in elective medical procedures in 2020. Some of these disruptions and impacts (including the suspension or postponement of elective medical procedures) in certain of our principal markets have continued into 2021. The pandemic has created significant volatility in the demand for our products. For further information about our revenues by product category, refer to Note 10 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Significant uncertainty remains regarding the duration and overall impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. For example, concerns remain regarding the pace of economic recovery due to virus resurgence across the globe from the Delta and Omicron variants and other virus mutations as well as vaccine distribution and hesitancy. The U.S. and other governments may continue existing measures or implement new restrictions and other requirements in light of the continuing spread of the pandemic (including with respect to mandatory vaccinations for certain of our employees and moratoriums on elective procedures). Due to the uncertainty caused by the pandemic, our operating performance and financial results, particularly in the short term, may be subject to volatility. We have experienced significant challenges, including lengthy delays, shortages and interruptions, posed by the pandemic and other exogenous factors (including significant weather events and disruptions to certain ports of call around the world) to our global supply chain, including the cost and availability of raw materials and component parts (including resins and electromechanical devices) and higher transportation costs, and may experience these and other challenges in future periods. Many of our manufacturing plant and distribution center personnel are currently unvaccinated, and we may also experience employee resistance in complying with current and future government vaccine and testing mandates, which may cause labor shortages significantly impacting manufacturing production and distribution center productivity for us and our suppliers. We expect that these challenges as well as evolving governmental restrictions and requirements, among other factors, may continue to have an adverse effect on our business. For further discussion, refer to Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Acquisition of Hillrom

On December 13, 2021, we completed the previously announced acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of Hill-Rom Holdings, Inc. (Hillrom) for a purchase price of $10.5 billion. Including the assumption of Hillrom's outstanding debt obligations, the enterprise value of the transaction was approximately $12.8 billion. Under the 

1

terms of the transaction agreement, Hillrom shareholders received $156.00 in cash per each outstanding Hillrom common share.

Prior to our acquisition of Hillrom, Hillrom was a global medical technology leader whose products and services help enable earlier diagnosis and treatment, optimize surgical efficiency, and accelerate patient recovery while simplifying clinical communication and shifting care closer to home. Hillrom made those outcomes possible through digital and connected care solutions and collaboration tools, including smart bed systems, patient monitoring and diagnostic technologies, respiratory health devices, advanced equipment for the surgical space and more, delivering actionable, real-time insights at the point of care. 

See Note 2 and Note 5 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information about the Hillrom acquisition and related financing arrangements.

Business Segments and Products

We manage our global operations based on four segments, consisting of the following geographic segments related to our legacy Baxter business: Americas (North and South America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and APAC (Asia-Pacific), and a new global segment for our recently acquired Hillrom business.

The Americas, EMEA and APAC segments provide a broad portfolio of essential healthcare products, including acute and chronic dialysis therapies; sterile IV solutions; infusion systems and devices; parenteral nutrition therapies; inhaled anesthetics; generic injectable pharmaceuticals; and surgical hemostat and sealant products. The Hillrom segment provides digital and connected care solutions and collaboration tools, including smart bed systems, patient monitoring and diagnostic technologies, respiratory health devices and advanced equipment for the surgical space.

For financial information about our segments, see Note 17 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Sales and Distribution

We have our own direct sales force and also make sales to and through independent distributors, drug wholesalers acting as sales agents and specialty pharmacy or other alternate site providers. In the United States, third parties, such as Cardinal Health, Inc., warehouse and ship a significant portion of our products through their distribution centers. These centers are generally stocked with adequate inventories to facilitate prompt customer service. Sales and distribution methods include frequent contact by sales and customer service representatives, automated communications via various electronic purchasing systems, circulation of catalogs and merchandising bulletins, direct-mail campaigns, trade publication presence and advertising.

Sales are made and products are distributed on a direct basis or through independent distributors or sales agents in more than 100 countries as of December 31, 2021.

International Operations

The majority of our revenues are generated outside of the United States and geographic expansion remains a component of our strategy. Our presence includes operations in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Canada. We are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States. For more information on these risks, see the information under the captions “Risks Related to Baxter’s Business —We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally” and “—Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity” in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

For financial information about our foreign and domestic revenues and segment information, see Note 17 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For more information regarding foreign currency exchange risk, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled “Financial Instrument Market Risk” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Contractual Arrangements

Our products are sold through contracts with customers, both within and outside the United States. Some of these contracts have terms of more than one year and place limits on our ability to increase prices. In the case of 

2

hospitals, governments and other facilities, these contracts may specify minimum quantities of a particular product or categories of products to be purchased by the customer.

In keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in healthcare delivery, many hospitals and other customers of medical products in the United States have joined group purchasing organizations (GPOs), or formed integrated delivery networks (IDNs), to enhance purchasing power. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with manufacturers and distributors and the negotiated prices are made available to members. We have purchasing agreements with several of the major GPOs in the United States. GPOs may have agreements with more than one supplier for certain products. Accordingly, in these cases, we face competition from other suppliers even where a customer is a member of a GPO under contract with us. Purchasing power is similarly consolidated in many other countries. For example, public contracting authorities often act as the purchasing entities for the hospitals and other customers of medical products in their region and many hospitals and other customers have joined joint procurement entities and buying consortia. The result is that demand for healthcare products is increasingly concentrated across our markets globally. Additionally, our contractual pricing arrangements with GPOs, IDNs and public contracting authorities limit our ability to increase prices in order to offset raw materials or component price increases or otherwise. 

Raw Materials and Component Parts

Raw materials and component parts essential to our business are purchased from numerous suppliers worldwide in the ordinary course of business. While many of these materials are generally available, we have experienced and may in the future experience shortages of supply. Additionally, certain of these materials are secured from single source suppliers or on a spot basis and not pursuant to a contractual arrangement. In an effort to manage risk associated with raw materials and component supply, we work closely with our suppliers to help ensure availability and continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. We also seek to develop new and alternative sources of supply where beneficial to our overall raw materials procurement strategy. Refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding risks related to the supply chain, raw materials and component parts.

We are not always able to recover cost increases for raw materials and component parts through customer pricing due to contractual limits, where applicable, and market forces. We seek to utilize long-term supply contracts with some suppliers to help maintain continuity of supply and manage the risk of price increases.

Competition and Healthcare Cost Containment

Our businesses benefit from a number of competitive advantages, including the breadth and depth of our product offerings and our strong relationships with customers, including hospitals and clinics, GPOs, IDNs, physicians, and patients, many of whom self-administer home-based therapies that we supply. We also benefit from efficiencies and cost advantages resulting from shared manufacturing facilities and the technological advantages of our products.

Although no single company competes with us in all of our businesses, we face substantial competition in each of our segments from international and domestic healthcare, medical products and pharmaceutical companies and providers of all sizes, and these competitors often differ across our businesses. In addition, global and regional competitors continue to expand their manufacturing capacity and sales and marketing channels. We believe customer purchasing decisions are primarily focused on cost-effectiveness, price, service, product performance, and technological innovation. There has been increasing consolidation in our customer base and by our competitors, which continues to result in pricing and market pressures.

Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing. Governments around the world use various mechanisms to control healthcare expenditures, such as price controls, the formation of public contracting authorities, product formularies (lists of recommended or approved products), and competitive tenders which require the submission of a bid to sell products. Sales of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement by government agencies and healthcare programs, as well as insurance companies and other private payers. In the United States, the federal and many state governments have adopted or proposed initiatives relating to Medicaid and other health programs that may limit reimbursement or increase rebates that we and other providers are required to pay to the state. In addition to government regulation, managed care organizations in the United States, which include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health-maintenance organizations, hospital and physician alliances and pharmacy benefit managers, continue to put pressure on the price and usage of healthcare products. Managed care organizations seek to contain healthcare expenditures, and their purchasing strength has been increasing due to their consolidation into fewer, larger 

3

organizations and a growing number of enrolled patients. We face similar issues outside of the United States. In Europe and Latin America, for example, the government provides healthcare at low cost to patients, and controls its expenditures by purchasing products through public tenders, collective purchasing, regulating prices, setting reference prices in public tenders or limiting reimbursement or patient access to certain products. For further discussion, refer to Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Intellectual Property

Patents and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. We rely on patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality agreements to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive position. We own a number of patents and trademarks throughout the world and have entered into license arrangements relating to various third-party patents and technologies. Products manufactured by us are sold primarily under our own trademarks and trade names. Some products distributed by us are sold under our trade names, while others are sold under trade names owned by our suppliers or partners. Trade secret protection of unpatented confidential and proprietary information is also important to us. We maintain certain details about our processes, products and technology as trade secrets and generally require employees, consultants, and business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants, and business partners use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions.

Our policy is to protect our products and technology through patents and trademarks on a worldwide basis. This protection is sought in a manner that balances the cost of such protection against obtaining the greatest value for us. We also recognize the need to promote the enforcement of our patents and trademarks and take commercially reasonable steps to enforce our patents and trademarks around the world against potential infringers, including judicial or administrative action where appropriate.

We operate in an industry susceptible to significant patent litigation. At any given time, we are involved as either a plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement and other intellectual property-related actions. Such litigation can result in significant royalty or other payments or result in injunctions that can prevent the sale of products. For more information on patent and other litigation, see Note 7 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Research and Development

Our investment in research and development (R&D), consistent with our portfolio optimization and capital allocation strategies, helps fuel our future growth and our ability to remain competitive in each of our product categories. Accordingly, we continue to focus our investment on select R&D programs to enhance future growth through clinical differentiation. Expenditures for our R&D activities were $534 million in 2021, $521 million in 2020, and $595 million in 2019. These expenditures include costs associated with R&D activities performed at our R&D centers located around the world, which include facilities in Belgium, Sweden, India, Italy, Germany, China, Japan and the United States, as well as in-licensing, milestone and reimbursement payments made to partners for R&D work performed at non-Baxter locations.

For more information on our R&D activities, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled “Strategic Objectives” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Quality Management

Our continued success depends upon the quality of our products. Quality management plays an essential role in determining and meeting customer requirements, helping to prevent defects, facilitating continuing improvement of our processes, products and services, and helping to assure the safety and efficacy of our products. Our quality system enables the design, development, manufacturing, packaging, sterilization, handling, distribution and labeling of our products to ensure that they conform to customer requirements. In order to consistently improve the effectiveness and efficiency of our quality system, various measurement, monitoring and analysis methods, such as management reviews and internal, external and vendor audits, are employed at local and central levels.

Each product that we market is required to meet specific quality standards, both in packaging and in product integrity and quality. If any of those is determined to be compromised at any time, we endeavor to take corrective and preventive actions designed to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements and to meet customer 

4

expectations. For more information on corrective actions taken by us, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled “Certain Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Government Regulation

Our operations and many of the products manufactured or sold by us are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government agencies, both within and outside the United States. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in Europe, the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA) in China and other government agencies, inside and outside of the United States, administer requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution and post-market surveillance of our products. We must obtain specific approval from FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities before we can market and sell most of our products in a particular country. Even after we obtain regulatory approval to market a product, the product and our manufacturing processes and quality systems are subject to continued review by FDA and other regulatory authorities globally, including additional 510(k) and other regulatory submissions, and approvals or the time needed to secure approvals are not certain. State agencies in the United States also regulate our facilities, operations, employees, products and services within their respective states. We, along with our facilities, are subject to periodic inspections and possible administrative and legal actions by FDA and other regulatory agencies inside and outside the United States. Such actions may include warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals or licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. As situations require, we take steps to ensure safety and efficacy of our products, such as removing products found not to meet applicable requirements from the market and improving the effectiveness of quality systems. For more information on compliance actions taken by us, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled “Certain Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We are also subject to various laws inside and outside the United States concerning our relationships with healthcare professionals and government officials, price reporting and regulation, the promotion, sales and marketing of our products and services, the importation and exportation of products, the operation of our facilities and distribution of products. In the United States, we are subject to the oversight of FDA, Office of the Inspector General within the Department of Health and Human Services (OIG), the Center for Medicare/Medicaid Services (CMS), the Department of Justice (DOJ), Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Defense and Customs and Border Protection in addition to others. We supply products and services to healthcare providers that are reimbursed by federally funded programs such as Medicare. As a result, our activities are subject to regulation by CMS and enforcement by OIG and DOJ. In each jurisdiction outside the United States, our activities are subject to regulation by government agencies including the EMA in Europe, CFDA in China and other agencies in other jurisdictions. Many of the agencies enforcing these laws have increased their enforcement activities with respect to healthcare companies in recent years. These actions appear to be part of a general trend toward increased enforcement activity globally.

Our operations involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily in manufacturing and sterilization processes. Our environmental policies require compliance with all applicable environmental regulations and contemplate, among other things, appropriate capital expenditures for environmental protection. For example, we made $33 million and $10 million of capital expenditures in 2021 and 2020, respectively, related to a new ethylene oxide emissions control system at our Mountain Home, Arkansas facility. All material elements of the new system are expected to be completed in 2022 and we currently expect to incur an additional $10 million of capital expenditures related to this project.

Human Capital Management

As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 60,000 people globally, with approximately 19,000 employees in the United States and approximately 41,000 employees outside of the United States. Approximately, 10,000 of those employees joined our organization in December 2021 in connection with our acquisition of Hillrom. Our employees are our most important assets and set the foundation for our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. They contribute to our success and, in particular, the employees in our manufacturing, sales, R&D and quality assurance departments are instrumental in driving operational execution and strong financial performance, advancing innovation and maintaining a strong quality and compliance program.

The success and growth of our business depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain and develop a diverse population of talented and high-performing employees at all levels of our organization, including the individuals who 

5

comprise our global workforce as well as executive officers and other key personnel. To succeed in a competitive labor market, we have developed recruitment and retention strategies, objectives and measures that we focus on as part of the overall management of our business. These strategies, objectives and measures form our human capital management framework and are advanced through the following programs, policies and initiatives:

•Competitive Pay and Benefits. Our compensation programs are designed to align the compensation of our employees with our performance and to provide the proper incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees to achieve superior results. The structure of our compensation programs balances incentive earnings for both short-term and long-term performance.

•Activating Change Today (ACT). Building on our strong diversity and inclusion platform, our senior leadership is working in close collaboration with the Baxter Black Alliance business resource group and colleagues from across the company on a multidimensional program to advance inclusion and racial justice. The ACT initiative is focused on driving results across four key areas – Workforce, Workplace, Community and Marketplace – encompassing employees, external stakeholders, and the markets and communities we serve.

•Health and Safety. Health and safety are firmly rooted across our global footprint. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic and related mitigation measures, we implemented changes in our business in 2020 in an effort to better protect our employees and customers, and to support appropriate health and safety protocols. For example, we installed physical barriers between employees in production facilities, implemented extensive cleaning and sanitation processes for both production and office administration spaces and implemented broad work-from-home initiatives for employees in our administrative functions. While our essential workers (production and field service employees) have continued to work at our facilities and provide vital services to our customers, most employees in our administrative functions have effectively worked remotely since March 2020.

•Recruitment, Training and Development. We use recruitment vehicles to attract diverse talent to our organization and we invest in learning opportunities that foster a growth mindset. Our formal offerings include a tuition reimbursement program, an e-learning platform known as BaxU and virtual workshops that support our culture, strategy and the development of crucial skills. To assess the impact of the investments we make in our people, and to help us consistently improve our human resources programs, we regularly conduct anonymous surveys of our global workforce to seek feedback on a variety of topics including confidence in our leadership, competitiveness of our compensation and benefits packages, career growth opportunities and improvements on how we can make our company an employer of choice. Administered and analyzed by an independent third-party, the survey results are reviewed by our senior leaders, which include our executive officers. The results of this engagement survey are also shared with individual managers, who are then tasked with taking action based on their employees’ anonymous feedback (both quantitative and qualitative). By paying close attention to the results both at an aggregate enterprise level as well as at a department/business/work group level, we have been able to enhance our culture of respect, help educate employees more effectively about our benefits offerings as well as our learning and development opportunities and further improve our communications content, mechanisms and frequency.

Available Information

We make available free of charge on our website at www.baxter.com our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports are also available free of charge via EDGAR through the Securities and Exchange Commission website (www.sec.gov). In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct, and the charters for the committees of our Board of Directors are available on our website at www.baxter.com under “About Baxter—About us — Governance.” All the foregoing materials will be made available to stockholders in print upon request by writing to: Corporate Secretary, Baxter International Inc., One Baxter Parkway, Deerfield, Illinois 60015. Information contained on our website shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 1A. Risk Factors.