MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION 

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

As described further throughout this Executive Summary, Citi demonstrated continued progress across the franchise during 2021:

•Citi’s earnings increased significantly versus the prior year, largely reflecting an allowance for credit loss (ACL) release of approximately $8.8 billion as a result of continued improvement in both the macroeconomic environment and portfolio credit quality. 

•Citi’s revenues declined 5% from the prior year. Excluding a pretax loss of approximately $0.7 billion (approximately $0.6 billion after-tax) related to Citi’s agreement to sell its Australia consumer banking business in Asia Global Consumer Banking (GCB) (see “Citigroup” below), Citi’s revenues declined 4%, as strength in investment banking, equity markets, the private bank and securities services in Institutional Clients Group (ICG) was more than offset by normalization in market activity in fixed income markets within ICG, as well as the impact of lower deposit spreads and card loans across GCB. 

•Citi’s expenses included pretax costs of approximately $1.2 billion ($1.1 billion after-tax) primarily related to charges incurred from the voluntary early retirement program (VERP) in connection with the wind-down of the Korea consumer banking business (for additional information, see “Asia GCB” below).

•Citi continued to invest in its transformation, including infrastructure supporting its risk and control environment, and make business-led investments.

•Citi had broad-based deposit growth across ICG and GCB (up 3% and 5%, respectively), reflecting continued engagement across both corporate and consumer clients.

•Citi returned approximately $11.8 billion of capital to its common shareholders in the form of $4.2 billion in dividends and $7.6 billion in common share repurchases, totaling approximately 105 million common shares, while maintaining robust regulatory capital ratios.

•In addition to the sale announcements related to Asia GCB, Citi also announced it intends to exit the consumer, small business and middle-market banking operations of Citibanamex in Mexico. Citi’s planned divestitures of its consumer businesses across Mexico, Asia and EMEA are aligned with the repositioning of its consumer operations to focus on global wealth centers, as well as payments and lending and a targeted retail presence in the U.S. (For additional information on the exit markets and Citi’s revised reporting structure effective for the first quarter of 2022, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Revised Reporting Strategy” above and “Latin America GCB” and “Asia GCB” below.)

Although economic growth and employment rates have continued to recover from pandemic-related lows, particularly in the U.S., various macroeconomic and other challenges and uncertainties related to, among other things, the duration and 

severity of the pandemic-related public health crisis, disruptions of global supply chains, inflationary pressures, increasing interest rates and geopolitical tensions involving Eastern Europe, will continue to create uncertainty around Citi’s businesses and results. 

For a discussion of trends, uncertainties and risks that will or could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition during 2022, see “2021 Results Summary,” “Risk Factors,” each respective business’s results of operations and “Managing Global Risk” below. 

2021 Results Summary

Citigroup

Citigroup reported net income of $22.0 billion, or $10.14 per share, compared to net income of $11.0 billion, or $4.72 per share, in the prior year. The increase in net income was driven by lower cost of credit, partially offset by higher expenses and lower revenues. Citigroup’s effective tax rate was 20%, up modestly from 19% in the prior year. Earnings per share increased significantly, primarily driven by net income. 

Citigroup revenues of $71.9 billion decreased 5% from the prior year. Excluding the Australia loss on sale, Citigroup revenues decreased 4%, primarily driven by lower revenues in both ICG and GCB, partially offset by higher revenues in Corporate/Other.

As discussed above, Citi’s 2021 results include the impacts of divestitures of Citi’s consumer banking businesses in Asia. Reported revenues include the Australia loss on sale (approximately $0.7 billion pretax, $0.6 billion after-tax), primarily reflecting the impact of a currency translation adjustment (CTA) loss (net of hedges) already reflected in the Accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) component of equity. Upon closing, the CTA balance will be removed from the AOCI component of equity, resulting in a neutral impact to Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital. 

Reported expenses include the impact of the Korea VERP of approximately $1.1 billion (approximately $0.8 billion after-tax) and contract modification costs related to the Asia divestitures of approximately $119 million (approximately $98 million after-tax). (As used throughout this Form 10-K, Citi’s results of operations and financial condition excluding the impact of the Australia loss on sale, Korea VERP and other Asia divestiture-related costs are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of its results of operations and financial condition excluding the divestiture-related impacts described above provides a meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of its broader results and Asia GCB businesses’ results for investors, industry analysts and others.)

Citigroup’s end-of-period loans decreased 1% from the prior year to $668 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes (FX translation), Citigroup’s end-of-period loans were largely unchanged, as growth in ICG was offset by lower loans in GCB and Corporate/Other. Citigroup’s end-of-period deposits 

7

increased 3% to $1.3 trillion. Excluding the impact of FX translation, Citigroup’s end-of-period deposits increased 4%, reflecting growth in both GCB and ICG. (As used throughout this Form 10-K, Citi’s results of operations excluding the impact of FX translation are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of its results of operations and financial condition excluding the impact of FX translation provides a meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of its businesses for investors, industry analysts and others.)

Expenses

Citigroup operating expenses of $48.2 billion increased 9% versus the prior year. Excluding the impact of the Asia divestitures, expenses of $47.0 billion increased 6%, primarily reflecting investments in Citi’s transformation, including infrastructure supporting its risk and control environment, business-led investments and revenue- and transaction-related expenses, partially offset by productivity savings. Citi expects expenses in 2022 to continue to be impacted by its transformation-related and business-led investments.

Cost of Credit

Citi’s total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims were a benefit of $3.8 billion, compared to a cost of $17.5 billion in the prior year primarily related to the pandemic. The decreased cost of credit was driven by a net ACL reserve release of $8.8 billion (versus a build of $9.8 billion in the prior year) as well as lower net credit losses. Citi’s net ACL release primarily reflected improvement in Citi’s macroeconomic outlook and portfolio credit quality. Citi could experience higher credit costs in 2022, as the level of ACL releases from 2021 are unlikely to continue, and Citi expects to build ACL reserves for new lending volumes. 

For further information on the drivers of Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Citi’s Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL)” below. 

Net credit losses of $4.9 billion declined 36% from the prior year. Consumer net credit losses of $4.5 billion decreased 32%, primarily reflecting lower loan volumes and improved delinquencies in the North America cards portfolios. Corporate net credit losses of $395 million decreased 60%, primarily reflecting improvements in portfolio credit quality. 

For additional information on Citi’s consumer and corporate credit costs and ACL, see each respective business’s results of operations and “Credit Risk” below.

Capital

Citigroup’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio was 12.2% as of December 31, 2021, based on the Basel III Standardized Approach framework for determining risk-weighted assets, compared to 11.5% as of December 31, 2020, based on the Basel III Advanced Approaches for determining risk-weighted assets. The increase in the ratio primarily reflected actions to reduce risk-weighted assets (RWA) and a temporary pause in common share repurchases in the fourth quarter of 2021, in preparation for the implementation of the Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR) on January 1, 2022. Citi resumed common share repurchases in January 2022.

Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio was 5.7% as of December 31, 2021, compared to 7.0% as of December 31, 2020. The decrease was primarily driven by the expiration of temporary relief granted by the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) as of the end of the first quarter of 2021. For additional information on SA-CCR and Citi’s capital ratios, see “Capital Resources” below.

Institutional Clients Group

ICG net income of $15.7 billion increased 36%, reflecting lower cost of credit, partially offset by higher expenses and lower revenues. ICG operating expenses increased 8% to $26.5 billion, reflecting continued investments in Citi’s transformation, business-led investments and revenue- and transaction-related expenses, partially offset by productivity savings.

ICG revenues of $43.9 billion decreased 3%, as a 7% increase in Banking revenues was more than offset by an 11% decline in Markets and securities services revenues. The increase in Banking revenues included the impact of $144 million of losses on loan hedges related to corporate lending and the private bank, compared to losses of $51 million in the prior year.

Banking revenues of $23.3 billion (excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges) increased 7%, as higher revenues in investment banking and the private bank were partially offset by lower revenues in treasury and trade solutions and corporate lending. Investment banking revenues of $7.5 billion increased 30%, reflecting growth across products, particularly in advisory and equity underwriting. Advisory revenues increased 78% to $1.8 billion, equity underwriting revenues increased 53% to $2.4 billion and debt underwriting revenues increased 3% to $3.3 billion.

Treasury and trade solutions revenues of $9.4 billion declined 4%, as higher fee revenues, including a recovery in commercial card revenues, as well as growth in trade were more than offset by the impact of lower deposit spreads. Private bank revenues increased 5%. Excluding the impact of gains on loan hedges, private bank revenues of $4.0 billion increased 6%, driven by higher loan volumes and spreads, as well as higher managed investments and deposits, partially offset by lower deposit spreads. Corporate lending revenues decreased 3%. Excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges, corporate lending revenues of $2.3 billion decreased 1%, as lower cost of funds was more than offset by lower loan volumes.

Markets and securities services revenues of $20.8 billion decreased 11%. Fixed income markets revenues of $13.7 billion decreased 22%, reflecting a normalization in market activity across rates and spread products. Equity markets revenues of $4.5 billion increased 25%, driven by growth across all products, reflecting solid client activity and favorable market conditions. Securities services revenues of $2.7 billion increased 6%, as strong fee revenues, driven by higher settlement volumes and higher assets under custody, were partially offset by lower deposit spreads. For additional information on the results of operations of ICG in 2021, see “Institutional Clients Group” below.

8

Global Consumer Banking

GCB net income was $6.1 billion, compared to net income of $667 million in the prior year, reflecting lower cost of credit, partially offset by lower revenues and higher expenses. GCB operating expenses of $20.0 billion increased 12%. Excluding the impact of FX translation and the Asia divestitures, expenses increased 5%, reflecting continued investments in Citi’s transformation, as well as business-led investments and volume-related expenses, partially offset by productivity savings.

GCB revenues of $27.3 billion decreased 10% from the prior year. Excluding the impact of FX translation and the Australia loss on sale, revenues decreased 9%, as continued solid deposit growth and growth in assets under management were more than offset by lower card loans and lower deposit spreads. For additional information on GCB’s results of operations, including the impact of FX translation, see “Global Consumer Banking” below.

North America GCB revenues of $17.5 billion decreased 9%, with lower revenues across branded cards, retail services and retail banking. Branded cards revenues of $8.2 billion decreased 7%, reflecting continued higher payment rates. Retail services revenues of $5.1 billion decreased 15%, reflecting continued higher payment rates and lower average loans as well as higher partner payments. Retail banking revenues of $4.2 billion decreased 7%, as the benefit of stronger deposit volumes was more than offset by lower deposit spreads and lower mortgage revenues.

North America GCB average deposits of $206 billion increased 17% year-over-year and average retail banking loans of $50 billion decreased 4% year-over-year, while assets under management of $87 billion increased 8%. Average branded cards loans of $81 billion decreased 4% and average retail services loans decreased 7%, reflecting higher payment rates. Branded cards spend volume of $411 billion increased 21% and retail services spend volume of $92 billion increased 18%, reflecting a recovery in sales activity from the pandemic-driven low levels in the prior year. For additional information on the results of operations of North America GCB in 2021, see “Global Consumer Banking—North America GCB” below.

International GCB revenues (consisting of Latin America GCB and Asia GCB (which includes the results of operations in certain EMEA countries)) of $9.8 billion declined 11% versus the prior year. Excluding the impact of FX translation and the Australia loss on sale, international GCB revenues declined 7%. Excluding the impact of FX translation, Latin America GCB revenues decreased 9%, driven by lower average loans and lower deposit spreads. Excluding the impact of FX translation and the Australia loss on sale, Asia GCB revenues decreased 6%, reflecting lower spreads, partially offset by higher investment revenues. For additional information on the results of operations of Latin America GCB and Asia GCB in 2021, including the impacts of FX translation, see “Global Consumer Banking—Latin America GCB” and “Global Consumer Banking—Asia GCB” below. For additional information on Citi’s consumer banking business in Australia, see “Global Consumer Banking—Asia GCB” below.

Year-over-year, excluding the impact of FX translation, international GCB average deposits of $146 billion increased 5%, average retail banking loans of $72 billion decreased 3% and assets under management of $145 billion increased 5%. On this basis, international GCB average card loans of $20 billion decreased 13%, while credit card spend volumes of $100 billion increased 9%, reflecting a continued recovery in credit card spend activity from the pandemic-related low levels in the prior year.

Corporate/Other

Corporate/Other net income was $215 million, compared to a net loss of $1.1 billion in the prior year, reflecting higher revenues, lower expenses, lower cost of credit, and the release of a foreign tax credit (FTC) valuation allowance. Operating expenses of $1.6 billion decreased 14%, reflecting the absence of the prior year’s civil money penalty and the wind-down of legacy assets, partially offset by increases related to Citi’s transformation.

Corporate/Other revenues of $667 million compared to $71 million in the prior year, primarily driven by higher net revenue from the investment portfolio. For additional information on the results of operations of Corporate/Other in 2021, see “Corporate/Other” below.

CITI’S CONSENT ORDER COMPLIANCE

Citi has embarked on a multiyear transformation, with the target outcome to change Citi’s business and operating models such that they simultaneously strengthen risk and controls and improve Citi’s value to customers, clients and shareholders. 

This includes efforts to effectively implement the October 2020 FRB and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) consent orders issued to Citigroup and Citibank, respectively. In the second quarter of 2021, Citi made an initial submission to the OCC, and submitted its plans to address the consent orders to both regulators during the third quarter of 2021. Citi continues to work constructively with the regulators, and will continue to reflect their feedback in its project plans and execution efforts.

As discussed above, Citi’s efforts include continued investments in its transformation, including the remediation of its consent orders. Citi's CEO has made the strengthening of Citi's risk and control environment a strategic priority and has

established a Chief Administrative Officer organization to centralize program management. In addition, the Citigroup and Citibank Boards of Directors each formed a Transformation Oversight Committee, an ad hoc committee of each Board, to provide oversight of management’s remediation efforts under the consent orders.

For additional information about the consent orders, see “Risk Factors—Compliance Risks” below and Citi’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 7, 2020. 

9

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Citigroup Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Table continues on the next page, including footnotes.

10

SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(Continued) 

Citigroup Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Revenue previously referred to as net interest revenue is now referred to as net interest income. During the fourth quarter of 2021, Citi reclassified deposit insurance expenses from Interest expense to Other operating expenses for all periods presented. Amounts reclassified for each year were $1,207 million for 2021, $1,203 million for 2020, $781 million for 2019, $1,182 million for 2018 and $1,249 million for 2017. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2) 2017 includes the one-time impact related to enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform). 2020, 2019 and 2018 reflect the tax rate structure post Tax Reform. RoTCE for 2017 excludes the one-time impact from Tax Reform and is a non-GAAP financial measure. For additional information, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Income Taxes” below. 

(3) The return on average common stockholders’ equity is calculated using net income less preferred stock dividends divided by average common stockholders’ equity. The return on average total Citigroup stockholders’ equity is calculated using net income divided by average Citigroup stockholders’ equity.

(4) RoTCE and TBV are non-GAAP financial measures. For information on RoTCE and TBV, see “Capital Resources—Tangible Common Equity, Book Value Per Share, Tangible Book Value Per Share and Returns on Equity” below.

(5) Citi’s risk-based capital and leverage ratios for 2017 are non-GAAP financial measures, which reflect full implementation of regulatory capital adjustments and deductions prior to the effective date of January 1, 2018.

(6) Citi’s reportable Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and Tier 1 Capital ratios were derived under the Basel III Standardized Approach, and the reportable Total Capital ratio was the lower derived under the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2019 to 2017. Citi’s reportable Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios were the lower derived under the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework as of December 31, 2020. 

(7) Dividends declared per common share as a percentage of net income per diluted share.

(8) Total common dividends declared plus common share repurchases as a percentage of net income available to common shareholders (Net income, less preferred dividends). See “Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity,” Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Equity Security Repurchases” below for the component details. 

NM Not meaningful

11

SEGMENT AND BUSINESS—INCOME (LOSS) AND REVENUES

CITIGROUP INCOME

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Asia GCB includes the results of operations of GCB activities in certain EMEA countries. 

NM Not meaningful

CITIGROUP REVENUES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Asia GCB includes the results of operations of GCB activities in certain EMEA countries.

NM Not meaningful

12

SEGMENT BALANCE SHEET(1)—DECEMBER 31, 2021

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The supplemental information presented in the table above reflects Citigroup’s consolidated GAAP balance sheet by reporting segment. The respective segment information depicts the assets and liabilities managed by each segment. 

(2)Consolidating eliminations for total Citigroup and Citigroup parent company assets and liabilities are recorded within Corporate/Other. 

(3)Total stockholders’ equity and the majority of long-term debt of Citigroup are reflected on the Citigroup parent company balance sheet. Citigroup allocates stockholders’ equity and long-term debt to its businesses through inter-segment allocations as shown above.

(4)Represents the attribution of Citigroup’s liquid assets (primarily consisting of cash, marketable equity securities and available-for-sale debt securities) to the various businesses based on Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) assumptions.

(5)Corporate/Other equity represents noncontrolling interests.

13

INSTITUTIONAL CLIENTS GROUP

As of December 31, 2021, Institutional Clients Group (ICG) included Banking and Markets and securities services (for additional information on these businesses, see “Citigroup Segments” above). ICG provided corporate, institutional, public sector and high-net-worth clients around the world with a full range of wholesale banking products and services, including fixed income and equity sales and trading, foreign exchange, prime brokerage, derivative services, equity and fixed income research, corporate lending, investment banking and advisory services, private banking, cash management, trade finance and securities services. ICG transacted with clients in both cash instruments and derivatives, including fixed income, foreign currency, equity and commodity products.

For information on Citi’s planned revision to its reporting structure, including the reporting of the private bank as part of a new reporting segment, Personal Banking and Wealth Management, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Planned Revision to Reporting Structure” above.

ICG revenue is generated primarily from fees and spreads associated with these activities. ICG earns fee income for assisting clients with transactional services and clearing and providing brokerage and investment banking services and other such activities. Such fees are recognized at the point in time when Citigroup’s performance under the terms of a contractual arrangement is completed, which is typically at the trade/execution date or closing of a transaction. Revenue generated from these activities is recorded in Commissions and fees and Investment banking. Revenue is also generated from assets under custody and administration, which is recognized as/when the associated promised service is satisfied, which normally occurs at the point in time the service is requested by the customer and provided by Citi. Revenue generated from these activities is primarily recorded in Administration and other fiduciary fees. For additional information on these various types of revenues, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In addition, as a market maker, ICG facilitates transactions, including holding product inventory to meet client demand, and earns the differential between the price at which it buys and sells the products. These price differentials and the unrealized gains and losses on the inventory are recorded in Principal transactions. Mark-to-market gains and losses on certain credit derivatives (used to hedge the corporate loan portfolio) are also recorded in Principal transactions (for additional information on Principal transactions revenue, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Other primarily includes realized gains and losses on available-for-sale (AFS) debt securities, gains and losses on equity securities not held in trading accounts and other non-recurring gains and losses. Interest income earned on assets held, less interest paid on long- and short-term debt and to customers on deposits, is recorded as Net interest income.

The amount and types of Markets revenues are impacted by a variety of interrelated factors, including market liquidity; changes in market variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices and credit spreads, as well as their implied volatilities; investor confidence and other macroeconomic conditions. Assuming all other market conditions do not change, increases in client activity levels or bid/offer spreads generally result in increases in revenues. However, changes in market conditions can significantly impact client activity levels, bid/offer spreads and the fair value of product inventory. For example, a decrease in market liquidity may increase bid/offer spreads, decrease client activity levels and widen credit spreads on product inventory positions. 

ICG’s management of the Markets businesses involves daily monitoring and evaluation of the above factors at the trading desk as well as the country level. 

In the Markets businesses, client revenues are those revenues directly attributable to client transactions at the time of inception, including commissions, interest or fees earned. Client revenues do not include the results of client facilitation activities (e.g., holding product inventory in anticipation of client demand) or the results of certain economic hedging activities.

ICG’s international presence is supported by trading floors in approximately 80 countries and a proprietary network in 95 countries and jurisdictions. At December 31, 2021, ICG had $1.8 trillion in assets and $950 billion in deposits. Securities services and issuer services managed $24.0 trillion in assets under custody and administration at December 31, 2021, of which Citi provides both custody and administrative services to certain clients related to $1.9 trillion of such assets. Managed assets under trust were $3.8 trillion at December 31, 2021. For additional information on these operations, see “Administration and Other Fiduciary Fees” in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

14

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) 2019 includes an approximate $350 million gain on Citi’s investment in Tradeweb. 

(2) 2020 includes an approximate $390 million operational loss related to certain legal matters. 

NM Not meaningful

15

ICG Revenue Details

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Credit derivatives are used to economically hedge a portion of the private bank and corporate loan portfolio that includes both accrual loans and loans at fair value. Gains (losses) on loan hedges include the mark-to-market on the credit derivatives and the mark-to-market on the loans in the portfolio that are at fair value. The fixed premium costs of these hedges are netted against the private bank and corporate lending revenues to reflect the cost of credit protection. Gains (losses) on loan hedges include $(131) million and $(74) million related to the corporate loan portfolio and $(13) million and $23 million related to the private bank for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. All of gains (losses) on loan hedges are related to the corporate loan portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2019. Citigroup’s results of operations excluding the impact of gains (losses) on loan hedges are non-GAAP financial measures.

(2) 2019 includes an approximate $350 million gain on Citi’s investment in Tradeweb. 

(3) Excludes principal transactions revenues of ICG businesses other than Markets, primarily treasury and trade solutions and the private bank.

(4) Citi assesses its Markets business performance on a total revenue basis, as offsets may occur across revenue line items. For example, securities that generate Net interest income may be risk managed by derivatives that are recorded in Principal transactions revenue. For a description of the composition of these revenue line items, see Notes 4, 5 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

NM Not meaningful

16

The discussion of the results of operations for ICG below excludes (where noted) the impact of gains (losses) on hedges of accrual loans, which are non-GAAP financial measures. For a reconciliation of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.

2021 vs. 2020

Net income of $15.7 billion increased 36% versus the prior year, primarily driven by lower cost of credit, partially offset by higher expenses and lower revenues.

Revenues decreased 3%, reflecting lower Markets and securities services revenues, partially offset by higher Banking revenues. Banking revenues were up 7% (both including and excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges), driven by higher revenues in investment banking and the private bank, partially offset by lower revenues in treasury and trade solutions and corporate lending. Markets and securities services revenues were down 11%, primarily reflecting a normalization in fixed income markets revenues, partially offset by growth in equity markets and securities services.

Citi expects that revenues in its markets and investment banking businesses will continue to reflect the overall market environment during 2022.

Within Banking:

•Investment banking revenues were up 30%, reflecting growth in the overall market wallet. Advisory revenues increased 78%, reflecting strength in North America and EMEA, driven by growth in the market wallet as well as wallet share gains. Equity underwriting revenues increased 53%, reflecting strength in North America and EMEA, driven by growth in the market wallet, as well as wallet share gains. Debt underwriting revenues increased 3%, reflecting strength in EMEA, as growth in the market wallet was partially offset by a decline in wallet share.

•Treasury and trade solutions revenues decreased 4% (both including and excluding the impact of FX translation), reflecting a decline in revenues in the cash business, partially offset by an increase in trade revenues. Cash revenues decreased, driven by the ongoing impact of lower deposit spreads. The decrease was partially offset by strong growth in fee revenues reflecting solid client engagement and growth in transaction volumes, including growth in USD clearing, commercial cards and cross-border solutions. The increase in trade revenues was driven by improved trade spreads and growth in loans, reflecting an increase in trade flows and originations, primarily in Asia and EMEA. Average trade loans increased 5% (both including and excluding the impact of FX translation).

•Corporate lending revenues decreased 3%, including the impact of losses on loan hedges. Excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges, revenues decreased 1%, as lower cost of funds was more than offset by lower loan volumes, reflecting muted demand given strong client liquidity positions. Average loans decreased 20% during the current year. 

•Private bank revenues increased 5%. Excluding the impact of gains (losses) on loan hedges, revenues increased 6%, driven by strong performance in North America and EMEA. The higher revenues reflected continued momentum with new and existing clients, 

resulting in higher loan volumes and spreads, higher managed investments revenues and higher deposit volumes. The increase in revenues was partially offset by lower deposit spreads due to the ongoing low interest rate environment and lower capital markets revenue.

Within Markets and securities services:

•Fixed income markets revenues decreased 22%, reflecting lower revenues across all regions, largely driven by a comparison to a strong prior year, as well as a normalization in market activity, particularly in rates and currencies, and spread products. Non-interest revenues decreased, reflecting lower investor client activity across rates and currencies and spread products. Net interest income also decreased, largely reflecting a change in the mix of trading positions. 

Rates and currencies revenues decreased 27%, driven by the normalization in market activity, and a comparison to a strong prior year that included elevated levels of volatility related to the pandemic. Spread products and other fixed income revenues decreased 11%, driven by a comparison to a strong prior year and the normalization in market activity, particularly in flow trading and structured products, reflecting lower volatility and spreads, partially offset by strong securitization activity. 

•Equity markets revenues increased 25%, driven by growth across all products. Equity derivatives revenues increased reflecting higher client activity, particularly in EMEA and North America. Prime finance revenues increased due to favorable market conditions as well as growth in client balances. Cash equities revenues increased modestly, reflecting higher client activity. Non-interest revenues increased, primarily due to higher principal transactions revenues, reflecting higher client activity.

•Securities services revenues increased 6%. Excluding the impact of FX translation, revenues increased 7%, as an increase in fee revenues with both new and existing clients, driven by growth in assets under custody and settlement volumes, was partially offset by lower deposit spreads.

Expenses were up 8%, primarily driven by continued investments in Citi’s transformation, business-led investments and higher incentive compensation, as well as transactional related expenses, partially offset by productivity savings. 

Provisions reflected a benefit of $2.9 billion compared to costs of $5.6 billion in the prior year, driven by an ACL release and lower net credit losses.

Net credit losses declined to $396 million from $987 million in the prior year, driven by improvements in portfolio credit quality.

The ACL release was $3.3 billion compared to a build of $4.6 billion in the prior year. The release was primarily driven by improvements in portfolio credit quality as well as Citi’s improved macroeconomic outlook. For additional information 

17

on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below.

For additional information on trends in ICG’s deposits and loans, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk—Loans” and “—Deposits” below. 

 For additional information on ICG’s corporate credit portfolio, see “Managing Global Risk—Credit Risk—Corporate Credit” below.

For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to ICG’s future results, see “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Country Risk—Argentina” and “Risk Factors” below.

18

This page intentionally left blank.

19

GLOBAL CONSUMER BANKING

As of December 31, 2021, Global Consumer Banking (GCB) consisted of consumer banking businesses in North America, Latin America (consisting of Citi’s consumer banking business in Mexico) and Asia. GCB provided traditional banking services to retail customers through retail banking, branded cards and, in the U.S., retail services (for information on consumer market exits related to Latin America GCB and Asia GCB as well as Citi’s planned revision to its reporting structure, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Planned Revision to Reporting Structure” above). 

GCB’s markets in the U.S., Mexico and Asia had a combined 2,154 branches in 19 countries and jurisdictions as of December 31, 2021. At December 31, 2021, GCB had $267 billion in loans and $362 billion in retail banking deposits (excluding approximately $10 billion of loans and $8 billion of deposits reclassified to held-for-sale as a result of Citi’s agreements to sell its consumer banking businesses in Australia and the Philippines).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Table continues on the next page, including footnotes.

20

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes both branded cards and retail services.

(2)Reflects the impact of FX translation into U.S. dollars at the 2021 average exchange rates for all periods presented.

(3)Presentation of this metric excluding FX translation is a non-GAAP financial measure.

NM Not meaningful

21

NORTH AMERICA GCB

As of December 31, 2021, North America GCB provided traditional retail banking and branded and retail services card products to retail and small business customers in the U.S. North America GCB’s U.S. cards product portfolio included its proprietary portfolio (Double Cash, Custom Cash, ThankYou and Value cards) and co-branded cards (including, among others, American Airlines and Costco) within branded cards, as well as its co-brand and private label relationships (including, among others, The Home Depot, Sears, Best Buy and Macy’s) within retail services. For information on Citi’s planned revision to its reporting structure, including the reporting of North America GCB’s consumer banking businesses as part of a new reporting segment, Personal Banking and Wealth Management, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Planned Revision to Reporting Structure” above.

At December 31, 2021, North America GCB had 658 retail bank branches concentrated in the six key metropolitan areas of New York, Chicago, Miami, Washington, D.C., Los Angeles and San Francisco. Also, as of December 31, 2021, North America GCB had $48.1 billion in retail banking loans and $219.3 billion in retail banking deposits. In addition, North America GCB had $133.9 billion in outstanding card loan balances.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM Not meaningful

22

2021 vs. 2020 

Net income was $5.9 billion, compared to a net loss of $46 million in the prior year, reflecting significantly lower cost of credit, partially offset by lower revenues and higher expenses.

Revenues decreased 9%, reflecting lower revenues in retail banking, branded cards and retail services.

Retail banking revenues decreased 7%, as the benefit of strong deposit growth and growth in assets under management (increase of 8%, reflecting favorable market conditions and strong client engagement) was more than offset by lower deposit spreads, as well as lower mortgage revenues. Average deposits increased 17%, driven by higher levels of consumer liquidity due to government stimulus, as well as continued strategic efforts to drive organic growth. 

Cards revenues decreased 10%. Branded cards revenues decreased 7%, primarily driven by continued higher payment rates, reflecting increased customer liquidity from government stimulus and relief programs, partially offset by higher spending-related revenues. Credit card spend volume increased 21%, reflecting a continued recovery in sales activity from the pandemic-driven low levels in the prior year. 

Retail services revenues decreased 15%, primarily driven by lower average loans (down 7%), reflecting higher payment rates from the increased customer liquidity from government stimulus and relief programs, as well as higher partner payments, reflecting higher income sharing as a result of lower net credit losses. For additional information on partner payments, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Credit card spend volume increased 18%, reflecting a continued recovery in sales activity from the pandemic-driven low levels in the prior year.

Expenses increased 6%, primarily driven by continued investments in Citi’s transformation, as well as business-led investments and higher volume-related expenses, partially offset by productivity savings.

Provisions reflected a benefit of $1.0 billion, compared to costs of $9.1 billion in the prior year, primarily driven by a net ACL release compared to a net ACL build in the prior year, as well as lower net credit losses. Net credit losses decreased 41%, consisting of lower net credit losses in both branded cards (down 39% to $1.7 billion) and retail services (down 46% to $1.2 billion), primarily driven by lower loan volumes and improved delinquencies, primarily as a result of the higher payment rates. 

The net ACL release was $4.0 billion, compared to a net build of $4.1 billion in the prior year, reflecting improvement in portfolio credit quality and the continued improvement in the macroeconomic outlook. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below.

For additional information on North America GCB’s retail banking, and its branded cards and retail services portfolios, see “Credit Risk—Consumer Credit” below.

For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to North America GCB’s future results, see “Executive Summary” above and “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” below.

23

LATIN AMERICA GCB

As of December 31, 2021, Latin America GCB provided traditional retail banking and branded card products to consumer and small business customers in Mexico through Citibanamex. 

As discussed above, Citi intends to exit its consumer, small business and middle-market banking operations in Mexico. For additional information, see Citi’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 11, 2022. For information on Citi’s planned revision to its reporting structure, including the reporting of the Mexico consumer, small business and middle-market banking operations as part of a new reporting segment, Legacy Franchises, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Planned Revision to Reporting Structure” above.

At December 31, 2021, Latin America GCB had 1,276 retail branches in Mexico, with $8.6 billion in retail banking loans and $24.8 billion in deposits. In addition, the business had $4.7 billion in outstanding card loan balances.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Reflects the impact of FX translation into U.S. dollars at the 2021 average exchange rates for all periods presented.

24

(2)Presentation of this metric excluding FX translation is a non-GAAP financial measure.

NM Not meaningful

The discussion of the results of operations for Latin America GCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentations of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. For a reconciliation of certain of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.

2021 vs. 2020 

Net income was $798 million, compared to $250 million in the prior year, reflecting significantly lower cost of credit and modestly lower expenses, partially offset by lower revenues.

Revenues decreased 9%, reflecting lower cards and retail banking revenues, largely due to the continued impact of the pandemic.

Retail banking revenues decreased 4%, primarily driven by lower loan volumes and deposit spreads, partially offset by growth in assets under management. Average loans decreased 13%, reflecting the impact of the pandemic on customer activity. Assets under management increased 8%, reflecting favorable market conditions, as well as strong client engagement.

Cards revenues decreased 21%, primarily driven by lower average loans (down 11%), reflecting higher payment rates. Credit card spend volume increased 16%, reflecting a continued recovery in sales activity from the pandemic-driven low levels in the prior year.

Expenses decreased 2%, as productivity savings more than offset continued investments in Citi’s transformation. 

Provisions of $174 million decreased 87%, primarily driven by a net ACL release compared to a net ACL build in the prior year, partially offset by higher net credit losses resulting from pandemic-related charge-offs.

The net ACL release was $826 million, compared to a build of $329 million in the prior year. The release reflected an improvement in portfolio credit quality, as well as continued improvement in the macroeconomic outlook and lower loan volumes. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below.

For additional information on Latin America GCB’s retail banking and its branded cards portfolios, see “Credit Risk—Consumer Credit” below.

For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to Latin America GCB’s future results, see “Executive Summary” above and “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” below.

25

ASIA GCB

As of December 31, 2021, Asia GCB provided traditional retail banking and branded card products to retail and small business customers. Included within Asia GCB were traditional retail banking and branded card products provided to retail customers in certain EMEA countries, primarily the UAE, Poland and Russia. 

As discussed above, Citi is pursuing exits of its consumer franchises in 13 markets across Asia and EMEA and will focus its consumer banking franchise in the two regions on four wealth centers: Singapore, Hong Kong, the UAE and London. In 2021, Citi entered into agreements to sell its consumer banking businesses in Australia and the Philippines, and made a decision to wind down and close its Korea consumer banking business (for additional information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 

In addition, in January 2022, Citi entered into agreements to sell its consumer banking businesses in Indonesia, Malaysia, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. For information on Citi’s planned revision to its reporting structure, including the reporting of the 13 exit markets as part of a new reporting segment, Legacy Franchises, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Planned Revision to Reporting Structure” above.

At December 31, 2021, on a combined basis, the businesses had 220 retail branches, $58.9 billion in retail banking loans and $117.7 billion in deposits. In addition, the businesses had $13.1 billion in outstanding card loan balances. These amounts exclude approximately $10 billion of loans ($7 billion of retail banking loans and $3 billion of credit card loan balances) and $8 billion of deposits reclassified to held-for-sale (HFS) as a result of Citi’s agreements to sell its consumer banking businesses in Australia and the Philippines. Australia and the Philippines are the only consumer businesses reclassified as HFS at December 31, 2021. For additional information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

26

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Asia GCB includes the results of operations of GCB activities in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

(2) Reflects the impact of FX translation into U.S. dollars at the 2021 average exchange rates for all periods presented.

(3) Presentation of this metric excluding FX translation is a non-GAAP financial measure.

NM Not meaningful

The discussion of the results of operations for Asia GCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentations of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. For a reconciliation of certain of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.

2021 vs. 2020

Net loss was $675 million, compared to net income of $475 million in the prior year. The net loss included the following items related to the 13 exit markets: (i) approximately $1.1 billion (approximately $0.8 billion after-tax) related to charges incurred from the voluntary early retirement program (VERP) in connection with the wind-down of the Korea consumer banking business; (ii) an approximate $0.7 billion pretax loss ($0.6 billion after-tax) related to the agreement to sell the Australia consumer banking business, largely reflecting the impact of a CTA loss (net of hedges); and (iii) contract modification costs related to the Asia divestitures of $119 million ($98 million after-tax). 

Excluding the above items, net income was $807 million compared to net income of $475 million in the prior year, reflecting significantly lower cost of credit, partially offset by higher expenses and lower revenues.

Revenues decreased 16%, including the Australia loss on sale. Excluding the Australia loss on sale, revenues declined 6%, reflecting lower retail banking and cards revenues, largely due to the continued impact of the pandemic, including lower interest rates. 

Retail banking revenues decreased 22%, including the Australia loss on sale. Excluding the Australia loss on sale, revenues decreased 7%, as growth in both investment revenues and deposits was more than offset by lower deposit spreads due to lower interest rates and lower FX and insurance revenues. Assets under management increased 3%, reflecting the impact of improved market conditions, as well as client engagement. Average deposits increased 6% and average loans decreased 2%. The decline in retail banking revenues was also impacted by a 3% decrease in retail lending revenues, reflecting a decline in personal loans driven by spread compression.

Cards revenues decreased 5%, as lower average loans (down 14%, including the reclassification to held-for-sale related to Australia and the Philippines and higher payment rates) were partially offset by higher spending-related revenues (credit card spend volume up 8%), reflecting a continued recovery in sales activity from the pandemic-driven low levels in the prior year.

Expenses increased 30%, including approximately $1.2 billion of costs related to the Asia divestitures. Excluding the costs related to the Asia divestitures, expenses increased 6%, primarily driven by continued investments in Citi’s transformation, as well as business-led investments, partially offset by productivity savings.

Provisions decreased 74%, primarily driven by a net ACL release compared to a net ACL build in the prior year, as well as lower net credit losses. Net credit losses decreased 10%, primarily reflecting lower cards loan volumes and improved delinquencies.

The net ACL release was $376 million, compared to a build of $528 million in the prior year. The release reflected an improvement in portfolio credit quality. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below.

For additional information on Asia GCB’s retail banking portfolios and its branded cards portfolios, see “Credit Risk—Consumer Credit” below.

For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to Asia GCB’s future results, see “Executive Summary” above and “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” and “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below.

27

CORPORATE/OTHER

Activities not assigned to the operating segments (ICG and GCB) are included in Corporate/Other. As of December 31, 2021, Corporate/Other included certain unallocated costs of global staff functions (including certain finance, risk, human resources, legal and compliance), other corporate expenses and unallocated global operations and technology expenses and income taxes, as well as results of Corporate Treasury, certain North America legacy consumer loan portfolios, discontinued operations and other legacy assets. For information on Citi’s planned revision to its reporting structure, including the reporting of the North America legacy consumer loan portfolios, discontinued operations and other legacy assets as part of a new reporting segment, Legacy Franchises, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Planned Revision to Reporting Structure” above. At December 31, 2021, Corporate/Other had $97 billion in assets.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM Not meaningful

2021 vs. 2020 

Net income was $215 million, compared to a net loss of $1.1 billion in the prior year, reflecting higher revenues, lower expenses and lower cost of credit. 

Revenues of $667 million compared to $71 million in the prior year, primarily driven by higher net revenue from the investment portfolio.

Expenses decreased 14%, reflecting the absence of a civil money penalty in the prior year and the wind-down of legacy assets, partially offset by increases related to Citi’s transformation.

Provisions reflected a net benefit of $369 million, compared to costs of $178 million in the prior year, primarily driven by a net ACL release in the current year ($286 million compared to a net build of $200 million in the prior year). The release reflected the continued improvement in the macroeconomic outlook.

For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below.

For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to Corporate/Other’s future results, see “Executive Summary” above and “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” below.

28

CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Overview

Capital is used principally to support assets in Citi’s businesses and to absorb credit, market and operational losses. Citi primarily generates capital through earnings from its operating businesses. Citi may augment its capital through issuances of common stock and noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, among other issuances. Further, Citi’s capital levels may also be affected by changes in accounting and regulatory standards, as well as U.S. corporate tax laws and the impact of future events on Citi’s business results, such as changes in interest and foreign exchange rates, as well as business and asset dispositions. For additional information on capital-related trends, uncertainties and risks related to Citi’s legacy and exit businesses, including the impact of CTA losses, see “Executive Summary” above and “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” and “—Operational Risks” below. 

During 2021, Citi returned a total of $11.8 billion of capital to common shareholders in the form of $4.2 billion in dividends and $7.6 billion in share repurchases totaling approximately 105 million common shares. 

Capital Management

Citi’s capital management framework is designed to ensure that Citigroup and its principal subsidiaries maintain sufficient capital consistent with each entity’s respective risk profile, management targets and all applicable regulatory standards and guidelines. Citi assesses its capital adequacy against a series of internal quantitative capital goals, designed to evaluate its capital levels in expected and stressed economic environments. Underlying these internal quantitative capital goals are strategic capital considerations, centered on preserving and building financial strength. 

The Citigroup Capital Committee, with oversight from the Risk Management Committee of Citigroup’s Board of Directors, has responsibility for Citi’s aggregate capital structure, including the capital assessment and planning process, which is integrated into Citi’s capital plan. Balance sheet management, including oversight of capital adequacy, for Citigroup’s subsidiaries is governed by each entity’s Asset and Liability Committee, where applicable. 

For additional information regarding Citi’s capital planning and stress testing exercises, see “Stress Testing Component of Capital Planning” below.

Current Regulatory Capital Standards

Citi is subject to regulatory capital standards issued by the Federal Reserve Board, which constitute the U.S. Basel III rules. These rules establish an integrated capital adequacy framework, encompassing both risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratios.

Risk-Based Capital Ratios

The U.S. Basel III rules set forth the composition of regulatory capital (including the application of regulatory capital adjustments and deductions), as well as two comprehensive methodologies (a Standardized Approach and Advanced Approaches) for measuring total risk-weighted assets. 

Total risk-weighted assets under the Advanced Approaches, which are primarily models based, include credit, market and operational risk-weighted assets. The Standardized Approach generally applies prescribed supervisory risk weights to broad categories of credit risk exposures. As a result, credit risk-weighted assets calculated under the Advanced Approaches are more risk sensitive than those calculated under the Standardized Approach. Market risk-weighted assets are currently calculated on a generally consistent basis under both approaches. The Standardized Approach excludes operational risk-weighted assets.

Under the U.S. Basel III rules, both Citi and Citibank, N.A. (Citibank) are required to maintain stated minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios of 4.5%, 6.0% and 8.0%, respectively. Further, the U.S. Basel III rules implement the “capital floor provision” of the so-called “Collins Amendment” of the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires Advanced Approaches banking organizations to calculate each of the three risk-based capital ratios (Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital) under both the U.S. Basel III Standardized Approach and the Advanced Approaches and comply with the more binding of each of the resulting risk-based capital ratios.

Tier 1 Leverage Ratio

Under the U.S. Basel III rules, Citi is also required to maintain a minimum Tier 1 Leverage ratio of 4.0%. The Tier 1 Leverage ratio, a non-risk-based measure of capital adequacy, is defined as Tier 1 Capital as a percentage of quarterly adjusted average total assets less amounts deducted from Tier 1 Capital. 

29

Supplementary Leverage Ratio

Citi is also required to calculate a Supplementary Leverage ratio, which differs from the Tier 1 Leverage ratio by also including certain off-balance sheet exposures within the denominator of the ratio (Total Leverage Exposure). The Supplementary Leverage ratio represents end-of-period Tier 1 Capital to Total Leverage Exposure, with the latter defined as the sum of the daily average of on-balance sheet assets for the quarter and the average of certain off-balance sheet exposures calculated as of the last day of each month in the quarter, less applicable Tier 1 Capital deductions. Advanced Approaches banking organizations are required to maintain a stated minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio of 3.0%.

Further, U.S. GSIBs, including Citi, are subject to enhanced Supplementary Leverage ratio standards. These enhanced standards establish a 2.0% leverage buffer in addition to the stated 3.0% minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio requirement, for a total effective minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio requirement of 5.0%. If a U.S. GSIB fails to exceed this requirement, it will be subject to increasingly onerous restrictions (depending upon the extent of the shortfall) regarding capital distributions and discretionary executive bonus payments. 

Temporary Supplementary Leverage Ratio Relief

In April 2020, the Federal Reserve Board issued an interim final rule that temporarily changed the calculation of the Supplementary Leverage ratio for bank holding companies, including Citigroup, by excluding U.S. Treasuries and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from Total Leverage Exposure. 

The interim final rule was effective for Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio, as well as for Citigroup’s leverage-based total loss absorbing capacity (TLAC) and long-term debt (LTD) requirements, and expired as scheduled on March 31, 2021. Citigroup’s reported Supplementary Leverage ratio of 7.0% during the fourth quarter of 2020 benefited 109 basis points, as a result of the temporary relief. 

Regulatory Capital Treatment—Modified Transition of the Current Expected Credit Losses Methodology

In September 2020, the U.S. banking agencies issued a final rule (substantially unchanged from a March 2020 interim final rule) that modified the regulatory capital transition provision related to the current expected credit losses (CECL) methodology. The September 2020 final rule does not have any impact on U.S. GAAP accounting. 

The final rule permitted banks to delay for two years the “Day One” adverse regulatory capital effects resulting from adoption of the CECL methodology on January 1, 2020 until January 1, 2022, followed by a three-year transition to phase out the regulatory capital benefit provided by the delay.

In addition, for the ongoing impact of CECL, the agencies utilized a 25% scaling factor as an approximation of the increased reserve build under CECL compared to the previous incurred loss model and, therefore, allowed banks to add back to Common Equity Tier 1 Capital an amount equal to 25% of the change in CECL-based allowances in each quarter between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021. Beginning January 1, 2022, the cumulative 25% change in CECL-based allowances 

between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021 will be phased in to regulatory capital (i) at 25% per year on January 1 of each year over the three-year transition period, and (ii) along with the delayed “Day One” impact.

Citigroup and Citibank elected the modified CECL transition provision provided by the rule beginning with the quarter ended March 31, 2020. Accordingly, the Day One regulatory capital effects resulting from adoption of the CECL methodology, as well as the ongoing adjustments for 25% of the change in CECL-based allowances in each quarter between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021, started to be phased in on January 1, 2022 and will be fully reflected in Citi’s regulatory capital as of January 1, 2025.

 As of December 31, 2021, Citigroup’s reported Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio of 12.2% benefited from the deferrals of the CECL transition provision by 24 basis points (bps), which resulted in an approximate 6 bps decrease to Citigroup’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio upon commencement of the phase-in on January 1, 2022. In addition, this phase-in is expected to result in an additional 6 bps decrease to Citigroup’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio on January 1 of each year through January 1, 2025. For additional information on Citigroup’s and Citibank’s regulatory capital ratios excluding the impact of the CECL transition provision, see “Capital Resources (Full Adoption of CECL)” below. 

TLAC Holdings

As previously disclosed, in January 2021, the U.S. banking agencies issued a final rule that created a new regulatory capital deduction applicable to Advanced Approaches banking organizations for certain investments in covered debt instruments issued by GSIBs. The final rule became effective for Citigroup and Citibank on April 1, 2021, and did not have a significant impact on either Citigroup’s or Citibank’s regulatory capital.

Regulatory Capital Buffers

Citi and Citibank are required to maintain several regulatory capital buffers above stated minimum capital requirements. These capital buffers would be available to absorb losses in advance of any potential impairment of regulatory capital below the stated minimum regulatory capital ratio requirements. 

Banking organizations that fall below their regulatory capital buffers are subject to limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers based on a percentage of “Eligible Retained Income” (ERI), with increasing restrictions based upon the severity of the breach. ERI is equal to the greater of (i) the bank’s net income for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter, net of any distributions and tax effects not already reflected in net income, and (ii) the average of the bank’s net income for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter.

As of December 31, 2021, Citi’s regulatory capital ratios exceeded effective regulatory minimum requirements. Accordingly, Citi is not subject to payout limitations as a result of Basel III requirements. 

30

Stress Capital Buffer

Citigroup is subject to the Federal Reserve Board’s Stress Capital Buffer (SCB) rule, which integrates the annual stress testing requirements with ongoing regulatory capital requirements. The SCB equals the peak-to-trough Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio decline under the Supervisory Severely Adverse scenario used in the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing (DFAST), plus four quarters of planned common stock dividends, subject to a floor of 2.5%. SCB-based minimum capital requirements will be reviewed and updated annually by the Federal Reserve Board as part of the CCAR process. For additional information regarding CCAR and DFAST, see “Stress Testing Component of Capital Planning” below. The fixed 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer (for additional information, see below) will continue to apply under the Advanced Approaches. 

In August 2021, the Federal Reserve Board finalized and announced Citi’s SCB requirement of 3.0%. Accordingly, effective October 1, 2021, Citigroup is required to maintain a 10.5% effective minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio under the Standardized Approach. Previously, from October 1, 2020 through September 30, 2021, Citi had been subject to a 2.5% SCB, and a 10.0% effective minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio under the Standardized Approach.

Capital Conservation Buffer and Countercyclical Capital Buffer

Citigroup is subject to a fixed 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer under the Advanced Approaches. Citibank is subject to the fixed 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer under both the Advanced Approaches and the Standardized Approach. 

In addition, Advanced Approaches banking organizations, such as Citigroup and Citibank, are subject to a discretionary Countercyclical Capital Buffer. The Federal Reserve Board last voted to affirm the Countercyclical Capital Buffer amount at the current level of 0% in December 2020.

GSIB Surcharge

The Federal Reserve Board imposes a risk-based capital surcharge upon U.S. bank holding companies that are identified as global systemically important bank holding companies (GSIBs), including Citi. The GSIB surcharge augments the SCB, Capital Conservation Buffer and, if invoked, any Countercyclical Capital Buffer.

A U.S. bank holding company that is designated a GSIB is required, on an annual basis, to calculate a surcharge using two methods and is subject to the higher of the resulting two surcharges. The first method (“method 1”) is based on the Basel Committee’s GSIB methodology. Under the second method (“method 2”), the substitutability category under the Basel Committee’s GSIB methodology is replaced with a quantitative measure intended to assess a GSIB’s reliance on short-term wholesale funding. In addition, method 1 incorporates relative measures of systemic importance across certain global banking organizations and a year-end spot foreign exchange rate, whereas method 2 uses fixed measures of systemic importance and application of an average foreign exchange rate over a three-year period. The GSIB surcharges 

calculated under both method 1 and method 2 are based on measures of systemic importance from the year immediately preceding that in which the GSIB surcharge calculations are being performed (e.g., the method 1 and method 2 GSIB surcharges calculated during 2021 will be based on 2020 systemic indicator data). Generally, Citi’s surcharge determined under method 2 will result in a higher surcharge than its surcharge determined under method 1.

Should a GSIB’s systemic importance increase for more than one year, such that it becomes subject to a higher GSIB surcharge, the higher surcharge would not become effective for a full year after the second consecutive higher score (e.g., a higher surcharge calculated using data as of December 31, 2020 and December 30, 2021 would not become effective until January 1, 2023). However, if after two consecutive years of a higher score, a GSIB’s systemic importance changes such that the GSIB would be subject to a lower surcharge, the GSIB would be subject to the lower surcharge in the calendar year commencing one year later (e.g., a lower surcharge calculated using data as of December 31, 2022 would become effective January 1, 2024).

The following table sets forth Citi’s effective GSIB surcharge as determined under method 1 and method 2 during 2021 and 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Citi’s GSIB surcharge effective during both 2021 and 2020 was 3.0%, as derived under the higher method 2 result. Citi’s GSIB surcharge effective for 2022 will remain unchanged at 3.0%, as derived under the higher method 2 result. 

Citi expects that its method 2 GSIB surcharge will continue to remain higher than its method 1 GSIB surcharge. Accordingly, based on Citi’s method 2 result as of December 31, 2020, and its estimated method 2 result as of December 31, 2021, Citi’s GSIB surcharge is expected to increase to 3.5% effective January 1, 2023. Citi’s GSIB surcharge effective for 2024 will likely be based on the lower of its method 2 scores for year-end 2021 and 2022, and therefore is not expected to exceed 3.5%.

Prompt Corrective Action Framework

In general, the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) regulations direct the U.S. banking agencies to enforce increasingly strict limitations on the activities of insured depository institutions that fail to meet certain regulatory capital thresholds. The PCA framework contains five categories of capital adequacy as measured by risk-based capital and leverage ratios: (i) “well capitalized,” (ii) “adequately capitalized,” (iii) “undercapitalized,” (iv) “significantly undercapitalized” and (v) “critically undercapitalized.”

Accordingly, an insured depository institution, such as Citibank, must maintain minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital, Total Capital and Tier 1 Leverage ratios of 6.5%, 8.0%, 10.0% and 5.0%, respectively, to be considered “well capitalized.” In addition, insured depository 

31

institution subsidiaries of U.S. GSIBs, including Citibank, must maintain a minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio of 6.0% to be considered “well capitalized.” Citibank was “well capitalized” as of December 31, 2021.

Furthermore, to be “well capitalized” under current federal bank regulatory agency definitions, a bank holding company must have a Tier 1 Capital ratio of at least 6.0%, a Total Capital ratio of at least 10.0% and not be subject to a Federal Reserve Board directive to maintain higher capital levels. 

Stress Testing Component of Capital Planning

Citi is subject to an annual assessment by the Federal Reserve Board as to whether Citigroup has effective capital planning processes as well as sufficient regulatory capital to absorb losses during stressful economic and financial conditions, while also meeting obligations to creditors and counterparties and continuing to serve as a credit intermediary. This annual assessment includes two related programs: the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing (DFAST).

For the largest and most complex firms, such as Citi, CCAR includes a qualitative evaluation of a firm’s abilities to determine its capital needs on a forward-looking basis. In conducting the qualitative assessment, the Federal Reserve Board evaluates firms’ capital planning practices, focusing on six areas of capital planning—namely, governance, risk management, internal controls, capital policies, incorporating stressful conditions and events, and estimating impact on capital positions. As part of the CCAR process, the Federal Reserve Board evaluates Citi’s capital adequacy, capital adequacy process and its planned capital distributions, such as dividend payments and common share repurchases. The Federal Reserve Board assesses whether Citi has sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial market stress and whether Citi has robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for its unique risks. 

All CCAR firms, including Citi, are subject to a rigorous evaluation of their capital planning process. Firms with weak practices may be subject to a deficient supervisory rating, and potentially an enforcement action, for failing to meet supervisory expectations. For additional information regarding CCAR, see “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” below. 

DFAST is a forward-looking quantitative evaluation of the impact of stressful economic and financial market conditions on Citi’s regulatory capital. This program serves to inform the Federal Reserve Board and the general public as to how Citi’s regulatory capital ratios might change using a hypothetical set of adverse economic conditions as designed by the Federal Reserve Board. In addition to the annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve Board, Citi is required to conduct annual company-run stress tests under the same adverse economic conditions designed by the Federal Reserve Board.

Both CCAR and DFAST include an estimate of projected revenues, losses, reserves, pro forma regulatory capital ratios, and any other additional capital measures deemed relevant by Citi. Projections are required over a nine-quarter planning horizon under two supervisory scenarios (baseline and 

severely adverse conditions). All risk-based capital ratios reflect application of the Standardized Approach framework under the U.S. Basel III rules. 

In addition, Citibank is required to conduct the annual Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test. The annual stress test consists of a forward-looking quantitative evaluation of the impact of stressful economic and financial market conditions under several scenarios on Citibank’s regulatory capital. This program serves to inform the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency as to how Citibank’s regulatory capital ratios might change during a hypothetical set of adverse economic conditions and to ultimately evaluate the reliability of Citibank’s capital planning process.

Citigroup and Citibank are required to disclose the results of their company-run stress tests. 

Temporary Federal Reserve Board Limitations on Capital Distributions

From the third quarter of 2020 to the second quarter of 2021, the Federal Reserve Board placed temporary limitations on capital distributions for Citi and other large banking organizations, to ensure that large banks maintained a high level of capital resilience throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. Commencing July 1, 2021, Citi’s common

stock dividends and share repurchases were no longer subject to limitations based on the average of Citi’s net income for the

four preceding calendar quarters.

All large banks, including Citi, remain subject to limitations on capital distributions in the event of a breach of

any regulatory capital buffers, including the Stress Capital

Buffer, with the degree of such restrictions based on the extent

to which the buffers are breached. For additional information,

see “Regulatory Capital Buffers” above, and “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” below.

32

Citigroup’s Capital Resources 

The following table sets forth Citi’s effective minimum risk-based capital requirements as of December 31, 2021, September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Beginning October 1, 2021, Citi’s effective minimum risk-based capital requirements include the 3.0% SCB and 3.0% GSIB surcharge under the Standardized Approach, and the 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer and 3.0% GSIB surcharge under the Advanced Approaches (all of which must be composed of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital). For prior periods presented, Citi’s effective minimum risk-based capital requirements included a 2.5% SCB and 3.0% GSIB surcharge under the Standardized Approach, and the 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer and 3.0% GSIB surcharge under the Advanced Approaches.

The following tables set forth Citi’s capital components and ratios as of December 31, 2021, September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Citi has elected to apply the modified transition provision related to the impact of the CECL accounting standard on regulatory capital, as provided by the U.S. banking agencies’ September 2020 final rule. Under the modified CECL transition provision, the changes in retained earnings (after-tax), deferred tax assets (DTAs) arising from temporary differences, and the ACL upon the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date were deferred and have commenced phase-in to regulatory capital at 25% per year beginning January 1, 2022. For the ongoing impact of CECL, Citigroup was allowed to adjust retained earnings and the ACL in an amount equal to 25% of the change in the ACL (pretax) for each period between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021. The cumulative adjustments to retained earnings and the ACL between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021 commenced phase-in to regulatory capital at 25% per year beginning January 1, 2022, along with the deferred impacts related to the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date. Corresponding adjustments to average on-balance sheet assets are reflected in quarterly adjusted average total assets and Total Leverage Exposure. Additionally, the increase in DTAs arising from temporary differences upon the January 1, 2020 adoption date were deducted from risk-weighted assets (RWA) and commenced phase-in to RWA at 25% per year beginning January 1, 2022.

(2)Citi’s reportable Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and Tier 1 Capital ratios were derived under the Basel III Standardized Approach as of December 31, 2021 and September 30, 2021, and under the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework as of December 31, 2020, whereas Citi’s reportable Total Capital ratio was the lower derived under the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework for all periods presented.

(3)Tier 1 Leverage ratio denominator. Represents quarterly average total assets less amounts deducted from Tier 1 Capital. 

(4)Supplementary Leverage ratio denominator. Commencing with the second quarter of 2020 and continuing through the first quarter of 2021, Citigroup’s Total Leverage Exposure temporarily excluded U.S. Treasuries and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks. For additional information, see “Temporary Supplementary Leverage Ratio Relief” above.

(5)Certain of the above prior-period amounts have been revised to conform with enhancements made in the current period. 

33

Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio 

As set forth in the table above, Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio at December 31, 2021 increased from September 30, 2021, primarily due to a decrease in risk-weighted assets and a temporary pause in common share repurchases in the fourth quarter of 2021 in preparation for the implementation of the Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR) on January 1, 2022. Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 

Capital ratio increased from year-end 2020, largely driven by net income of $22.0 billion, a net decrease in risk-weighted assets and a temporary pause in common share repurchases in the fourth quarter of 2021 in preparation for the implementation of SA-CCR, partially offset by the return of $11.8 billion of capital to common shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends, as well as adverse net movements in AOCI.

Components of Citigroup Capital

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Footnotes continue on the following page.

34

(1)Issuance costs of $131 million and $156 million related to noncumulative perpetual preferred stock outstanding at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, are excluded from common stockholders’ equity and netted against such preferred stock in accordance with Federal Reserve Board regulatory reporting requirements, which differ from those under U.S. GAAP. 

(2)Citi has elected to apply the modified transition provision related to the impact of the CECL accounting standard on regulatory capital, as provided by the U.S. banking agencies’ September 2020 final rule. Under the modified CECL transition provision, the changes in retained earnings (after-tax) and the ACL upon the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date were deferred and commenced phase-in to regulatory capital at 25% per year beginning January 1, 2022. For the ongoing impact of CECL, Citigroup was allowed to adjust retained earnings and the ACL in an amount equal to 25% of the change in the ACL (pretax) for each period between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021. The cumulative adjustments to retained earnings and the ACL between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021 have also commenced phase in to regulatory capital at 25% per year beginning January 1, 2022, along with the deferred impacts related to the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date.

(3)Includes goodwill “embedded” in the valuation of significant common stock investments in unconsolidated financial institutions. 

(4)Of Citi's $24.8 billion of net DTAs at December 31, 2021, $15.3 billion was included in Common Equity Tier 1 Capital pursuant to the U.S. Basel III rules, while $9.5 billion was excluded. Excluded from Citi's Common Equity Tier 1 Capital as of December 31, 2021 was $11.3 billion of net DTAs arising from net operating loss, foreign tax credit and general business credit tax carry-forwards. The amount excluded was reduced by $1.8 billion of net DTLs primarily associated with goodwill and certain other intangible assets that are separately deducted from capital. DTAs arising from tax carry-forwards are required to be entirely deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 Capital under the U.S. Basel III rules. DTAs arising from temporary differences are required to be deducted from capital only if these DTAs exceed 10%/15% limitation under the U.S. Basel III rules. Citi’s DTAs do not currently exceed this limitation and, therefore, are not subject to deduction from Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, but are subject to risk weighting at 250%. 

(5)Represents Citigroup Capital XIII trust preferred securities, which are permanently grandfathered as Tier 1 Capital under the U.S. Basel III rules. 

(6)Banking entities are required to be in compliance with the Volcker Rule of the Dodd-Frank Act, which prohibits conducting certain proprietary investment activities and limits their ownership of, and relationships with, covered funds. Commencing January 1, 2021, Citi no longer deducts permitted market-making positions in third-party covered funds from Tier 1 Capital, in accordance with the revised Volcker Rule 2.0 issued by the U.S. agencies in November 2019. Upon the removal of the capital deduction, permitted market-making positions in third-party covered funds are included in risk-weighted assets.

(7)Represents the amount of non-grandfathered trust preferred securities that were previously eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital under the U.S. Basel III rules. Commencing January 1, 2022, non-grandfathered trust preferred securities have been fully phased out of Tier 2 Capital.

(8)Under the Standardized Approach, the allowance for credit losses is eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital up to 1.25% of credit risk-weighted assets, with any excess allowance for credit losses being deducted in arriving at credit risk-weighted assets, which differs from the Advanced Approaches framework, in which eligible credit reserves that exceed expected credit losses are eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital to the extent that the excess reserves do not exceed 0.6% of credit risk-weighted assets. The total amount of eligible credit reserves in excess of expected credit losses that were eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital, subject to limitation, under the Advanced Approaches framework was $4.4 billion and $5.2 billion at December 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively.

35

Citigroup Capital Rollforward 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

36

Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Rollforward (Basel III Standardized Approach) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Repo-style transactions include repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions as well as securities borrowing and securities lending transactions. Repo-style transactions decreased during the three months and 12 months ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to exposure-driven decreases. 

(2)Securitization exposures increased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to increases in new deals.

(3)OTC derivatives decreased during the three months ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to decreases in mark-to-market and notional movement. OTC derivatives increased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to increases in mark-to-market for bilateral derivatives.

(4)Other exposures include cleared transactions, unsettled transactions, and other assets. Other exposures decreased during the three months ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to decreases in cleared transactions. Other exposures increased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to increases in various other assets.

(5)Market risk-weighted assets decreased during the three months and 12 months ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to exposure changes.

37

Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Rollforward (Basel III Advanced Approaches) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Retail exposures decreased during the three months ended December 31, 2021, primarily driven by model recalibrations. Retail exposures decreased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2021, primarily driven by seasonal holiday spending repayments, less spending on qualifying revolving (card) exposures and model recalibrations.

(2)Wholesale exposures decreased during the three months and 12 months ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to reductions in commercial loans and wholesale loan commitments. 

(3)Securitization exposures increased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to increases in new deals.

(4)OTC derivatives decreased during the three months ended December 31,2021, primarily due to decreases in mark-to-market and notional movement.

(5)Derivatives CVA decreased during the three months ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to decreases in exposure and volatility, as well as lower credit spreads and sensitivity.

(6)Other exposures increased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to increases in various other assets.

(7)Market risk-weighted assets decreased during the three months and 12 months ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to exposure changes.

(8)Operational risk-weighted assets decreased during the three months and 12 months ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to changes in operational loss severity and frequency.

38

Supplementary Leverage Ratio

The following table sets forth Citi’s Supplementary Leverage ratio and related components as of December 31, 2021, September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Represents the daily average of on-balance sheet assets for the quarter.

(2)Citi has elected to apply the modified transition provision related to the impact of the CECL accounting standard on regulatory capital, as provided by the U.S. banking agencies’ September 2020 final rule. Under the modified CECL transition provision, the changes in DTAs arising from temporary differences and the ACL upon the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date were deferred and commenced phase-in to regulatory capital at 25% per year beginning January 1, 2022. For the ongoing impact of CECL, Citigroup was allowed to adjust the ACL in an amount equal to 25% of the change in the ACL (pretax) for each period between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021. The cumulative adjustments to the ACL between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021 have also commenced phase in to regulatory capital at 25% per year beginning January 1, 2022, along with the deferred impacts related to the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date. Corresponding adjustments to average on-balance sheet assets are reflected in Total Leverage Exposure.

(3)Commencing with the second quarter of 2020 and continuing through the first quarter of 2021, Citigroup’s Total Leverage Exposure temporarily excluded U.S. Treasuries and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks. For additional information, see “Temporary Supplementary Leverage Ratio Relief” above.

(4)Represents the average of certain off-balance sheet exposures calculated as of the last day of each month in the quarter. 

(5)Under the U.S. Basel III rules, banking organizations are required to include in Total Leverage Exposure the effective notional amount of sold credit derivatives, with netting of exposures permitted if certain conditions are met. 

(6)Repo-style transactions include repurchase or reverse repurchase transactions as well as securities borrowing or securities lending transactions.

As set forth in the table above, Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio was 5.7% at December 31, 2021, compared to 5.8% at September 30, 2021 and 7.0% at December 31, 2020. The quarter-over-quarter decrease was primarily driven by an increase in Total Leverage Exposure, primarily driven by an increase in average on-balance sheet assets, as well as adverse net movements in AOCI, partially offset by net income in the quarter. The year-over-year decrease was primarily driven by an increase in Total Leverage Exposure, largely due to an approximate 100 basis point impact from the expiration of the Federal Reserve Board’s temporary Supplementary Leverage ratio relief. For additional information, see “Temporary Supplementary Leverage Ratio Relief” above. 

Capital Resources of Citigroup’s Subsidiary U.S. 

Depository Institutions 

Citigroup’s subsidiary U.S. depository institutions are also subject to regulatory capital standards issued by their respective primary bank regulatory agencies, which are similar to the standards of the Federal Reserve Board. 

39

The following tables set forth the capital components and ratios for Citibank, Citi’s primary subsidiary U.S. depository institution, as of December 31, 2021, September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)For all periods presented, Citibank’s effective minimum risk-based capital requirements are inclusive of the 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer (all of which must be composed of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital).

(2)Citibank has elected to apply the modified transition provision related to the impact of the CECL accounting standard on regulatory capital, as provided by the U.S. banking agencies’ September 2020 final rule. Under the modified CECL transition provision, the changes in retained earnings (after-tax), deferred tax assets (DTAs) arising from temporary differences, and the ACL upon the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date were deferred and have commenced phase-in to regulatory capital at 25% per year beginning on January 1, 2022. For the ongoing impact of CECL, Citibank was allowed to adjust retained earnings and the ACL in an amount equal to 25% of the change in the ACL (pretax) for each period between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021. The cumulative adjustments to retained earnings and the ACL between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021 have also commenced phase-in to regulatory capital at 25% per year beginning January 1, 2022, along with the deferred impacts related to the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date. Corresponding adjustments to average on-balance sheet assets are reflected in quarterly adjusted average total assets and Total Leverage Exposure. Additionally, the increase in DTAs arising from temporary differences upon the January 1, 2020 adoption date were deducted from risk-weighted assets (RWA) and commenced phase-in to RWA at 25% per year beginning January 1, 2022.

(3)Under the Advanced Approaches framework, eligible credit reserves that exceed expected credit losses are eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital to the extent that the excess reserves do not exceed 0.6% of credit risk-weighted assets, which differs from the Standardized Approach in which the ACL is eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital up to 1.25% of credit risk-weighted assets, with any excess ACL being deducted in arriving at credit risk-weighted assets.

(4)Citibank’s reportable Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and Tier 1 Capital ratios were the lower derived under the Basel III Standardized Approach, whereas Total Capital ratio was derived under the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework for all periods presented.

(5)Citibank must maintain minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital, Total Capital and Tier 1 Leverage ratios of 6.5%, 8.0%, 10.0% and 5.0%, respectively, to be considered “well capitalized” under the revised Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) regulations applicable to insured depository institutions as established by the U.S. Basel III rules. Citibank must also maintain a minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio of 6.0% to be considered “well capitalized.” 

(6)Tier 1 Leverage ratio denominator. Represents quarterly average total assets less amounts deducted from Tier 1 Capital.

(7)Supplementary Leverage ratio denominator. 

(8)Certain of the above prior-period amounts have been revised to conform with enhancements made in the current period. 

As indicated in the table above, Citibank’s capital ratios at December 31, 2021 were in excess of the stated and effective minimum requirements under the U.S. Basel III rules. In addition, Citibank was also “well capitalized” as of December 31, 2021. 

40

Impact of Changes on Citigroup and Citibank Capital Ratios 

The following tables present the estimated sensitivity of Citigroup’s and Citibank’s capital ratios to changes of $100 million in Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital (numerator), and changes of $1 billion in Advanced Approaches and Standardized Approach risk-weighted assets and quarterly adjusted average total assets, as well as Total Leverage Exposure (denominator), as of December 31, 2021. This information is provided for the 

purpose of analyzing the impact that a change in Citigroup’s or Citibank’s financial position or results of operations could have on these ratios. These sensitivities only consider a single change to either a component of capital, risk-weighted assets, quarterly adjusted average total assets or Total Leverage Exposure. Accordingly, an event that affects more than one factor may have a larger basis point impact than is reflected in these tables.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Citigroup Broker-Dealer Subsidiaries

At December 31, 2021, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., a U.S. broker-dealer registered with the SEC that is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup, had net capital, computed in accordance with the SEC’s net capital rule, of $13 billion, which exceeded the minimum requirement by $8 billion. 

Moreover, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, a broker-dealer registered with the United Kingdom’s Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) that is also an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup, had total capital of $28 billion at December 31, 2021, which exceeded the PRA’s minimum regulatory capital requirements.

In addition, certain of Citi’s other broker-dealer 

subsidiaries are subject to regulation in the countries in which they operate, including requirements to maintain specified levels of net capital or its equivalent. Citigroup’s other principal broker-dealer subsidiaries were in compliance with their regulatory capital requirements at December 31, 2021. 

41

Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) 

U.S. GSIBs, including Citi, are required to maintain minimum

levels of TLAC and eligible long-term debt (LTD), each set by

reference to the GSIB’s consolidated risk-weighted assets

(RWA) and total leverage exposure.

Minimum External TLAC Requirement

The minimum external TLAC requirement is the greater of (i) 18% of the GSIB’s RWA plus the then-applicable RWA-based TLAC buffer (see below) and (ii) 7.5% of the GSIB’s total leverage exposure plus a leverage-based TLAC buffer of 2% (i.e., 9.5%).

The RWA-based TLAC buffer equals the 2.5% capital

conservation buffer, plus any applicable countercyclical

capital buffer (currently 0%), plus the GSIB’s capital

surcharge as determined under method 1 of the GSIB

surcharge rule (2.0% for Citi for 2021). Accordingly, Citi’s

total current minimum TLAC requirement was 22.5% of RWA for 2021.

Minimum LTD Requirement

The minimum LTD requirement is the greater of (i) 6% of the GSIB’s RWA plus its capital surcharge as determined under method 2 of the GSIB surcharge rule (3.0% for Citi for 2021), for a total current requirement of 9% of RWA for Citi, and (ii) 4.5% of the GSIB’s total leverage exposure.

The table below details Citi’s eligible external TLAC and

LTD amounts and ratios, and each effective minimum TLAC and LTD ratio requirement, as well as the surplus amount in dollars in excess of each requirement.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) External TLAC includes Method 1 GSIB surcharge of 2.0%.

(2) LTD includes Method 2 GSIB surcharge of 3.0%.

As of December 31, 2021, Citi exceeded each of the

minimum TLAC and LTD requirements, resulting in a $10

billion surplus above its binding TLAC requirement of LTD as

a percentage of Total Leverage Exposure.

For additional information on Citi’s TLAC-related requirements, see “Risk Factors—Compliance Risks” and “Liquidity Risk—Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC)” below.

Capital Resources (Full Adoption of CECL)(1)

The following tables set forth Citigroup’s and Citibank’s capital components and ratios had the full impact of CECL been adopted as of December 31, 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)See footnote 2 on the “Components of Citigroup Capital” table above.

(2)The effective minimum requirements were applicable as of December 31, 2021. See “Stress Capital Buffer” above for additional information. 

(3)Citibank’s effective minimum requirements were the same under the Standardized Approach and the Advanced Approaches Framework.

42

Adoption of the Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk

In January 2020, the U.S. banking agencies issued a final rule to introduce the Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR). SA-CCR replaced the Current Exposure Method (CEM), which was the previous methodology used to calculate exposure for all derivative contracts under the Standardized Approach, as well as RWA for derivative contracts under the Advanced Approaches in cases where internal models are not used. In addition, SA-CCR replaced CEM in numerous other instances throughout the regulatory framework, including but not limited to the Supplementary Leverage Ratio, certain components of the GSIB score, single counterparty credit limits and legal lending limits.

Under SA-CCR, a banking organization calculates the exposure amount of its derivative contracts at the netting set level. Multiple derivative contracts are generally considered to be under the same netting set as long as each derivative contract is subject to the same qualifying master netting agreement. SA-CCR also introduced the concept of hedging sets, which allows a banking organization to fully or partially net derivative contracts within the same netting set that share similar risk factors. Moreover, SA-CCR incorporated updated supervisory and maturity factors to calculate the potential future exposure of a derivative contract, and provides for improved recognition of collateral. Under the final rule, the exposure amount of a netting set is equal to an alpha factor of 1.4 multiplied by the sum of the replacement cost and potential future exposure of the netting set.

Citi adopted SA-CCR as of the mandatory compliance date of January 1, 2022. Adoption of SA-CCR increased Citigroup’s Standardized RWA by approximately $51 billion, which resulted in a 49 bps decrease to Citigroup’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio under the Standardized Approaches on January 1, 2022. Citigroup’s reported CET1 Capital ratio under the Standardized Approach as of December 31, 2021 was 12.25%, 75 bps above its 11.5% CET1 Capital target, and 175 bps above its 10.5% effective regulatory minimum CET1 Capital requirement under the Standardized Approach. 

Adoption of SA-CCR also increased Citigroup’s Advanced RWA by approximately $29 billion, which resulted in a 29 bps decrease to Citigroup’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio under the Advanced Approaches on January 1, 2022. Citigroup’s reported CET1 Capital ratio under the Advanced Approaches as of December 31, 2021 was 12.35%, 85 bps above its 11.5% CET1 Capital target, and 235 bps above its 10.0% effective regulatory minimum CET1 Capital requirement under the Advanced Approaches.

Citigroup voluntarily suspended share repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2021, in anticipation of the adverse impact resulting from SA-CCR adoption. Citi resumed common share repurchases in January 2022.

Regulatory Capital Standards Developments

Basel III Revisions 

As previously disclosed, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee) has finalized certain Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms. The reforms relate to the methodologies in deriving credit, market and operational risk-weighted assets, the imposition of a new aggregate output floor for risk-weighted assets, and revisions to the leverage ratio framework.

The U.S. banking agencies may revise the U.S. Basel III rules in the future, in response to the Basel Committee’s Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms. For information about risks related to changes in regulatory capital requirements, see “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks.” below.

43

Tangible Common Equity, Book Value Per Share, Tangible Book Value Per Share and Return on Equity

Tangible common equity (TCE) represents common stockholders’ equity less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets (other than mortgage servicing rights (MSRs)). RoTCE represents net income available to common shareholders as a percentage of average TCE. Tangible book value (TBV) per share represents TCE divided by common shares outstanding. These measures are non-GAAP financial measures. Other companies may calculate these measures in a different manner. Citi believes TCE, TBV and RoTCE provide alternate measures of capital strength and performance for investors, industry analysts and others.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Year ended December 31, 2017 excludes the one-time impact of Tax Reform. For a reconciliation of these amounts, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Income Taxes” below.

44

RISK FACTORS

The following discussion sets forth what management currently believes could be the material risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Other risks and uncertainties, including those not currently known to Citi or its management, could also negatively impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Thus, the following should not be considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and uncertainties that Citi may face. For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi, see “Executive Summary” and each respective business’ results of operations above and “Managing Global Risk” below. The following risk factors are categorized to improve the readability and usefulness of the risk factor disclosure, and, while the headings and risk factors generally align with Citi’s risk categorization, in certain instances the risk factors may not directly correspond with how Citi categorizes or manages its risks.

MARKET-RELATED RISKS

Macroeconomic, Geopolitical and Other Challenges and Uncertainties Globally Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Businesses and Results of Operations.

In addition to the significant macroeconomic challenges posed by the pandemic (see the pandemic-related risk factor below), Citi has experienced, and could experience in the future, negative impacts to its businesses and results of operations as a result of other macroeconomic, geopolitical and other challenges, uncertainties and volatility.

For example, the recent action of Russian military forces and support personnel in Ukraine has escalated tensions between Russia and the U.S., NATO, the EU and the U.K. The U.S. has imposed, and is likely to impose material additional, financial and economic sanctions and export controls against certain Russian organizations and/or individuals, with similar actions either implemented or planned by the EU and the U.K. and other jurisdictions. During the week of February 21, 2022, the U.S., the U.K., and the EU each imposed packages of financial and economic sanctions that, in various ways, constrain transactions with numerous Russian entities and individuals; transactions in Russian sovereign debt; and investment, trade, and financing to, from, or in certain regions of Ukraine. Citi’s ability to engage in activity with certain consumer and institutional businesses in Russia and Ukraine or involving certain Russian or Ukrainian businesses and customers is dependent in part upon whether such engagement is restricted under any current or expected U.S., EU and other countries or U.K. sanctions and laws. Sanctions and export controls, as well as any actions by Russia, could adversely affect Citi’s business activities and customers in and from Russia and Ukraine. Moreover, actions by Russia, and any further measures taken by the U.S. or its allies, could have negative impacts on regional and global financial markets and economic conditions. For additional information about these and other related risks, see the operational processes and systems, cybersecurity and emerging markets risk factors below. For additional information about Citi’s exposures in 

Russia, see “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Country Risk—Russia” below.

Additionally, governmental fiscal and monetary actions, or expected actions, such as changes in interest rate policies and any program implemented by a central bank to change the size of its balance sheet, could significantly impact interest rates, economic growth rates, the volatility of global financial markets, foreign exchange rates and global capital flows. Further, it remains uncertain to what extent central banks may keep interest rates low or whether central banks might raise interest rates or reduce the size of their balance sheets, particularly as inflationary pressures continue and the U.S. and global economies continue to improve. While earlier in the pandemic the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) and other central banks took actions to support the global economy, including by further reducing their benchmark interest rates, mismatches between supply and demand of goods and services contributed to a rise in inflation in 2021, prompting the FRB to announce the approaching end of the period of extraordinarily low interest rates. 

Interest rates on loans Citi makes are typically based off or set at a spread over a benchmark interest rate, and would likely decline or rise as benchmark rates decline or rise, respectively. While the interest rates at which Citi pays depositors are already low and unlikely to decline much further, declining or continued low interest rates for loans could further compress Citi’s net interest income. Citi’s net interest income could also be adversely affected due to a flattening of the interest rate yield curve (e.g., a lower spread between shorter-term versus longer-term interest rates), as Citi, similar to other banks, typically pays interest on deposits based on shorter-term interest rates and earns money on loans based on longer-term interest rates.

In contrast, an abrupt and sustained increase in interest rates could interfere with the global macroeconomic recovery, whether due to continued or increased inflationary pressures or otherwise. And while Citi estimates its overall net interest income would generally increase due to higher interest rates, higher rates could adversely affect Citi’s funding costs, levels of deposits in its consumer and institutional businesses and certain business or product revenues. For additional information on Citi’s interest rate risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Market Risk—Net Interest Income at Risk” below.

Additional areas of uncertainty include, among others, an elevated level of inflation resulting in adverse spill-over effects; the ability of Congress to raise the federal debt ceiling; slowing of the Chinese economy, including negative economic impacts associated with such slowdown or any policy actions; significant disruptions and volatility in financial markets; other geopolitical tensions and conflicts; protracted or widespread trade tensions; financial market, other economic and political disruption driven by anti-establishment movements; natural disasters; other pandemics; and election outcomes. For example, Citi’s market-making businesses can suffer losses resulting from the widening of credit spreads due to unanticipated changes in financial markets. In addition, adverse developments or downturns in one or more of the world’s larger economies would likely have a significant impact on the global economy or the economies of other countries because of global financial and economic linkages.

45

These and additional global macroeconomic, geopolitical and other challenges, uncertainties and volatilities have negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, including its credit costs, revenues across ICG and GCB and AOCI (which would in turn negatively impact Citi’s book and tangible book value).

STRATEGIC RISKS

Rapidly Evolving Challenges and Uncertainties Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic in the U.S. and Globally Will Likely Continue to Have Negative Impacts on Citi’s Businesses and Results of Operations and Financial Condition.

The COVID-19 pandemic has affected all of the countries and jurisdictions in which Citi operates, including severely impacting global health, financial markets, consumer and business spending and economic conditions. The extent of the future pandemic impacts remain uncertain and will likely evolve by region, country or state, largely depending on the duration and severity of the public health consequences, including the duration and further spread of the coronavirus as well as any variants becoming more prevalent and impactful; further production, distribution, acceptance and effectiveness of vaccines; availability and efficiency of testing; the public response; and government actions. The future impacts to global economic conditions may include, among others: 

•further disruption of global supply chains; 

•higher inflation;

•higher interest rates;

•significant disruption and volatility in financial markets; 

•additional closures, reduced activity and failures of many businesses, leading to loss of revenues and net losses;

•further institution of social distancing and restrictions on businesses and the movement of the public in and among the U.S. and other countries; and

•reduced U.S. and global economic output.

The pandemic has had, and may continue to have, negative impacts on Citi’s businesses and overall results of operations and financial condition, which could be material. The extent of the impact on Citi’s operations and financial performance, including its ability to execute its business strategies and initiatives, will continue to depend significantly on future developments in the U.S. and globally. Such developments are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the course of the coronavirus, as well as any weakness or slowing in the economic recovery or a further economic downturn, whether due to further supply chain disruptions, inflation trends, higher interest rates or otherwise.

The pandemic may not be sufficiently contained for an extended period of time. A prolonged health crisis could reduce economic activity in the U.S. and other countries, resulting in additional declines or weakness in employment trends and business and consumer confidence. These factors could negatively impact global economic activity and markets; cause a continued decline in the demand for Citi’s products and services and in its revenues; further increase Citi’s credit and other costs; and may result in impairment of long-lived 

assets or goodwill. These factors could also cause an increase in Citi’s balance sheet, risk-weighted assets and ACL, resulting in a decline in regulatory capital ratios or liquidity measures, as well as regulatory demands for higher capital levels and/or limitations or reductions in capital distributions (such as common share repurchases and dividends). Moreover, any disruption or failure of Citi’s performance of, or its ability to perform, key business functions, as a result of the continued spread of COVID-19 or otherwise, could adversely affect Citi’s operations.

The impact of the pandemic on Citi’s consumer and corporate borrowers will vary by sector or industry, with some borrowers experiencing greater stress levels, particularly as credit and customer assistance support further winds down, which could lead to increased pressure on their results of operations and financial condition, increased borrowings or credit ratings downgrades, thus likely leading to higher credit costs for Citi. These borrowers include, among others, businesses that are more directly impacted by the institution of social distancing, the movement of the public and store closures. In addition, stress levels ultimately experienced by Citi’s borrowers may be different from and more intense than assumptions made in prior estimates or models used by Citi, resulting in an increase in Citi’s ACL or net credit losses, particularly as the benefits of fiscal stimulus and government support programs diminish.

Ongoing legislative and regulatory changes in the U.S. and globally to address the economic impact from the pandemic could further affect Citi’s businesses, operations and financial performance. Citi could also face challenges, including legal and reputational, and scrutiny in its efforts to provide relief measures. Such efforts have resulted in, and may continue to result in, litigation, including class actions, and regulatory and government actions and proceedings. Such actions may result in judgments, settlements, penalties and fines adverse to Citi. In addition, the different types of government actions could vary in scale and duration across jurisdictions and regions with varying degrees of effectiveness.

Citi has taken measures to maintain the health and safety of its colleagues; however, these measures could result in additional expenses, and illness of employees could negatively affect staffing for a period of time. In addition, Citi’s ability to recruit, hire and onboard colleagues in key areas could be negatively impacted by pandemic restrictions as well as Citi’s COVID-19 vaccination requirement (see the qualified colleagues risk factor below).

Further, it is unclear how the macroeconomic or business environment or societal norms may be impacted after the pandemic. The post-pandemic environment may undergo unexpected developments or changes in financial markets, fiscal, monetary, tax and regulatory environments and consumer customer and corporate client behavior. These developments and changes could have an adverse impact on Citi’s results of operations and financial condition. Ongoing business and regulatory uncertainties and changes may make Citi’s longer-term business, balance sheet and strategic and budget planning more difficult or costly. Citi and its management and businesses may also experience increased or different competitive and other challenges in this environment. 

46

To the extent that it is not able to adapt or compete effectively, Citi could experience loss of business and its results of operations and financial condition could suffer (see the competitive challenges risk factor below).

Citi’s Ability to Return Capital to Common Shareholders Consistent with Its Capital Planning Efforts and Targets Substantially Depends on Regulatory Capital Requirements, Including the Results of the CCAR Process and Regulatory Stress Tests.

Citi’s ability to return capital to its common shareholders consistent with its capital planning efforts and targets, whether through its common stock dividend or through a share repurchase program, substantially depends, among other things, on regulatory capital requirements, including the Stress Capital Buffer (SCB), which is based upon the results of the CCAR process required by the FRB as well as the supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd- Frank Act (as described in more detail below). 

Citi’s ability to return capital also depends on its results of operations and financial condition, the capital impact related to divestitures, forecasts of macroeconomic conditions, its implementation and maintenance of an effective capital planning process and management framework, and effectiveness in planning, managing and calculating its level of risk-weighted assets under both the Advanced Approaches and the Standardized Approach, Supplementary Leverage Ratio (SLR) and global systemically important bank holding company (GSIB) surcharge, which has been made more challenging due to elevated levels of liquidity in the financial system related to the pandemic (see the macroeconomic challenges and uncertainties risk factor above).

Changes in regulatory capital rules, requirements or interpretations could have a material impact on Citi’s regulatory capital, both as a result of changes in Citi’s reported regulatory capital and integration into the CCAR process and regulatory stress tests. For example, Citi was required to adopt the Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR) as of January 1, 2022, which resulted in an approximate $51 billion increase in Citi’s risk-weighted assets under the Standardized Approach. Citi voluntarily suspended common share repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2021, in anticipation of the adverse impact resulting from the adoption of SA-CCR. Citi will be required to adopt SA-CCR for purposes of the supervisory stress test during the 2023 cycle and SA-CCR may be considered by management during the 2022 cycle for purposes of management’s own capital adequacy assessment. In addition, the U.S. banking agencies may potentially consider a number of changes to the U.S. regulatory capital framework in the future, including, but not limited to, revisions to the U.S. Basel III rules, recalibration of the GSIB surcharge and SLR, and enactment of the discretionary Countercyclical Capital Buffer. All of these potential changes could negatively impact Citi’s regulatory capital position or increase Citi’s regulatory capital requirements.

All CCAR firms, including Citi, will continue to be subject to a rigorous regulatory evaluation of capital planning practices, including, but not limited to, governance, risk management and internal controls. Citi’s ability to return 

capital may be adversely impacted if such an evaluation of Citi resulted in negative findings. In addition, Citi’s ability to accurately predict, interpret or explain to stakeholders the results of the CCAR process, and thus to address any market or investor perceptions, may be limited as the FRB’s assessment of Citi’s capital adequacy is conducted using the FRB’s proprietary stress test models. For additional information on limitations on Citi’s ability to return capital to common shareholders, as well as the CCAR process, supervisory stress test requirements and GSIB surcharge, see “Capital Resources—Overview” and “Capital Resources—Stress Testing Component of Capital Planning” above and the risk management risk factor below.

The FRB has stated that it expects leading capital adequacy practices to continue to evolve and to likely be determined by the FRB each year as a result of its cross-firm review of capital plan submissions. Similarly, the FRB has indicated that, as part of its stated goal to continually evolve its annual stress testing requirements, several parameters of the annual stress testing process may continue to be altered, including the severity of the stress test scenario, the FRB modeling of Citi’s balance sheet, pre-provision net revenue (PPNR) and stress losses, and the addition of components deemed important by the FRB.

Beginning January 1, 2022, Citi was required to phase into regulatory capital at 25% per year the changes in retained earnings, deferred tax assets and ACL determined upon the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date, as well as subsequent changes in the ACL between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021. The FRB has stated that it plans to maintain its current framework for calculating allowances on loans in the supervisory stress test through the 2023 supervisory stress test cycle, while continuing to evaluate appropriate future enhancements to this framework. The impacts on Citi’s capital adequacy of the FRB’s incorporation of CECL in its supervisory stress tests on an ongoing basis, and of other potential regulatory changes in the FRB’s stress testing methodologies, remain unclear. For additional information regarding the CECL methodology, including the transition provisions related to the adverse regulatory capital effects resulting from adoption of the CECL methodology, see “Capital Resources—Current Regulatory Capital Standards—Regulatory Capital Treatment—Modified Transition of the Current Expected Credit Losses Methodology” above and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In addition, the FRB has integrated the annual stress testing requirements with ongoing regulatory capital requirements. For Citigroup, the SCB equals the maximum decline in Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio under the supervisory severely adverse scenario over a nine-quarter CCAR measurement period, plus four quarters of planned common stock dividends, subject to a minimum requirement of 2.5%. Effective October 1, 2021, Citi’s SCB was 3.0%. The SCB is calculated by the FRB using its proprietary data and modeling of each firm’s results. Accordingly, Citi’s SCB may change annually, or possibly more frequently, based on the supervisory stress test results, thus potentially resulting in volatility in the calculation of the SCB. Similar to the other regulatory capital buffers, a breach of the SCB would result in graduated limitations on capital distributions. For additional 

47

information on the SCB, including its calculation, see “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Buffers” above.

Although various uncertainties exist regarding the extent of, and the ultimate impact to Citi from, these changes to the FRB’s regulatory capital, stress testing and CCAR regimes, these changes could increase the level of capital Citi is required or elects to hold, including as part of Citi’s management buffer, thus potentially impacting the extent to which Citi is able to return capital to shareholders.

Citi, Its Management and Its Businesses Must Continually Review, Analyze and Successfully Adapt to Ongoing Regulatory and Legislative Uncertainties and Changes in the U.S. and Globally.

Despite the adoption of final regulations and laws in numerous areas impacting Citi and its businesses over the past several years, Citi, its management and its businesses continually face ongoing regulatory and legislative uncertainties and changes, both in the U.S. and globally. While the areas of ongoing regulatory and legislative uncertainties and changes facing Citi are too numerous to list completely, various examples include, but are not limited to (i) potential fiscal, monetary, regulatory, tax and other changes arising from the U.S. federal government and other governments, including as a result of the differing priorities of the current U.S. presidential administration, changes in regulatory leadership or focus and actions of Congress or in response to the pandemic; (ii) potential changes to various aspects of the regulatory capital framework and requirements applicable to Citi (see the capital return risk factor and “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Standards Developments” above); and (iii) future legislative and regulatory requirements in the U.S. and globally related to climate change, including any new disclosure requirements (see the climate change risk factor below). When referring to “regulatory,” Citi is including both formal regulation and the views and expectations of its regulators in their supervisory roles.

U.S. and international regulatory and legislative initiatives have not always been undertaken or implemented on a coordinated basis, and areas of divergence have developed and continue to develop with respect to the scope, interpretation, timing, structure or approach, leading to inconsistent or even conflicting requirements, including within a single jurisdiction. For example, in May 2019, the European Commission adopted, as part of Capital Requirements Directive V (CRD V), a new requirement for major banking groups headquartered outside the EU (which would include Citi) to establish an intermediate EU holding company where the foreign bank has two or more institutions (broadly meaning banks, broker-dealers and similar financial firms) established in the EU. While in some respects the requirement mirrors an existing U.S. requirement for non-U.S. banking organizations to form U.S. intermediate holding companies, the implementation of the EU holding company requirement could lead to additional complexity with respect to Citi’s resolution planning, capital and liquidity allocation and efficiency in various jurisdictions.

Moreover, ongoing regulatory and legislative uncertainties and changes make Citi’s and its management’s long-term business, balance sheet and strategic budget 

planning difficult, subject to change and potentially more costly. U.S. and other regulators globally have implemented and continue to discuss various changes to certain regulatory requirements, which would require ongoing assessment by management as to the impact to Citi, its businesses and business planning. For example, while the Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms and revised market risk framework have been finalized at the international level, there remain significant uncertainties with respect to the integration of these revisions into the U.S. regulatory capital framework. Business planning is required to be based on possible or proposed rules or outcomes, which can change dramatically upon finalization, or upon implementation or interpretive guidance from numerous regulatory bodies worldwide, and such guidance can change.

Regulatory and legislative changes have also significantly increased Citi’s compliance risks and costs (see the implementation and interpretation of regulatory changes risk factor below) and can adversely affect Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition.

Citi’s Continued Investment and Other Initiatives as Part of Its Transformation and Strategic Refresh May Not Be as Successful as It Projects or Expects.

As part of its transformation initiatives, Citi continues to make significant investments to improve its infrastructure, risk management and controls and further enhance safety and soundness (for additional information, see the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor below). Citi also continues to execute on its strategic refresh that includes, among other things, its exit of certain consumer banking businesses (see below) and its investments to deepen client relationships and enhance client offerings and capabilities in order to simplify the Company and enhance its allocation of resources. 

For example, Citi continues to invest in its technology and digital capabilities across the franchise, including digital platforms and mobile and cloud-based solutions. In addition, Citi has been making other investments across the Company, such as in Citi’s wealth management business, commercial banking business, treasury and trade solutions, securities services and other businesses, including implementing new capabilities and partnerships. Citi has also been pursuing productivity improvements through various technology and digital initiatives, organizational simplification and location strategies. Failure to properly invest in and upgrade Citi’s technology and processes could result in an inability to be sufficiently competitive, serve clients effectively and avoid operational errors (for additional information, see the operational processes and systems risk factor below). There is no guarantee that these or other initiatives Citi may pursue will be as productive or effective as Citi expects, or at all.

Furthermore, Citi’s strategic refresh necessitates further changes in and exits of certain businesses, which involve significant execution complexity, and could result in additional losses, charges or other negative financial impacts. For example, Citi may not be able to achieve its objectives related to its exits of 13 consumer markets in Asia and EMEA or exit of the consumer, small business and middle-market banking operations in Mexico. These exits may not be as productive, effective or timely as Citi expects and may result 

48

in additional foreign currency translation adjustments (CTA) or other losses, charges or other negative financial or strategic impacts, which could be material. For additional information on CTA losses, see the incorrect assumptions or estimates risk factor below.

Citi’s investment and other initiatives may continue to evolve as its business strategies, the market environment and regulatory expectations change, which could make the initiatives more costly and more challenging to implement, and limit their effectiveness. Moreover, Citi’s ability to achieve expected returns on its investments and costs savings depends, in part, on factors that it cannot control, including, among others, interest rates; inflation; impacts related to the pandemic; customer, client and competitor actions; and ongoing regulatory changes.

Citi’s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs, and Thus Reduce the Negative Impact of the DTAs on Citi’s Regulatory Capital, Will Be Driven by Its Ability to Generate U.S. Taxable Income.

At December 31, 2021, Citi’s net DTAs were $24.8 billion, net of a valuation allowance of $4.2 billion, of which $9.5 billion was deducted from Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital under the U.S. Basel III rules, primarily relating to net operating losses, foreign tax credit and general business credit carry-forwards (for additional information, see “Capital Resources—Components of Citigroup Capital” above). 

Of the net DTAs at December 31, 2021, $2.8 billion related to foreign tax credit (FTC) carry-forwards, net of a valuation allowance. The carry-forward utilization period for FTCs is 10 years and represents the most time-sensitive component of Citi’s DTAs. The FTC carry-forwards at December 31, 2021 expire over the period of 2022–2029. Citi must utilize any FTCs generated in the then-current-year tax return prior to utilizing any carry-forward FTCs.

The accounting treatment for realization of DTAs, including FTCs, is complex and requires significant judgment and estimates regarding future taxable earnings in the jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available tax planning strategies. Forecasts of future taxable earnings will depend upon various factors, including, among others, the continued impact of the pandemic and other macroeconomic conditions. In addition, any future increase in U.S. corporate tax rates could result in an increase in Citi’s DTA, which may subject more of Citi’s existing DTA to exclusion from regulatory capital while improving Citi’s ability to utilize its FTC carry-forwards. 

Citi’s overall ability to realize its DTAs will primarily be dependent upon its ability to generate U.S. taxable income in the relevant tax carry-forward periods. Although utilization of FTCs in any year is generally limited to 21% of foreign source taxable income in that year, overall domestic losses (ODL) that Citi has incurred in the past allow it to reclassify domestic source income as foreign source. Failure to realize any portion of the net DTAs would have a corresponding negative impact on Citi’s net income and financial returns.

Citi has not been and does not expect to be subject to the Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax (BEAT), which, if applicable to Citi in any given year, would have a significantly adverse effect on both Citi’s net income and regulatory capital.

For additional information on Citi’s DTAs, including FTCs, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Income Taxes” below and Notes 1 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Citi’s Interpretation or Application of the Complex Tax Laws to Which It Is Subject Could Differ from Those of the Relevant Governmental Authorities, Which Could Result in Litigation or Examinations and the Payment of Additional Taxes, Penalties or Interest.

Citi is subject to various income-based tax laws of the U.S. and its states and municipalities, as well as the numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax laws are inherently complex and Citi must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws, including the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform), to its entities, operations and businesses. In addition, Citi is subject to litigation or examinations with U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities regarding non-income-based tax matters. Citi’s interpretations or application of the tax laws, including with respect to Tax Reform, withholding, stamp, service and other non-income taxes, could differ from that of the relevant governmental taxing authority, which could result in the requirement to pay additional taxes, penalties or interest, which could be material. For additional information on the litigation and examinations involving non-U.S. tax authorities, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

A Deterioration in or Failure to Maintain Citi’s Co-Branding or Private Label Credit Card Relationships, Including as a Result of Early Termination, Bankruptcy or Liquidation, Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Results of Operations or Financial Condition.

Citi has co-branding and private label relationships through its branded cards and retail services credit card businesses with various retailers and merchants globally, whereby in the ordinary course of business Citi issues credit cards to customers of the retailers or merchants. The five largest relationships across both businesses in North America GCB constituted an aggregate of approximately 9% of Citi’s revenues in 2021 (for additional information, see “Global Consumer Banking—North America GCB” above). Citi’s co-branding and private label agreements provide for shared economics between the parties and generally have a fixed term.

Over the last several years, a number of U.S. retailers have continued to experience declining sales due to the pandemic or otherwise, which has resulted in significant numbers of store closures and, in a number of cases, bankruptcies, as retailers attempt to cut costs and reorganize. In addition, as has been widely reported, competition among card issuers, including Citi, for these relationships is significant, and it has become increasingly difficult in recent years to maintain such relationships on the same terms or at all.

Citi’s co-branding and private label relationships could be negatively impacted by, among other things, the general economic environment; changes in consumer sentiment, spending patterns and credit card usage behaviors; a decline in sales and revenues, partner store closures, government 

49

imposed restrictions, reduced air and business travel, or other operational difficulties of the retailer or merchant; early termination due to a contractual breach or exercise of other early termination right; or other factors, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings, consolidations or other similar events, whether due to the ongoing impact of the pandemic or otherwise (see the pandemic-related risk factor above).

While various mitigating factors could be available to Citi if any of the above events were to occur—such as by replacing the retailer or merchant or offering other card products—these events, particularly early termination and bankruptcies or liquidations, could negatively impact the results of operations or financial condition of branded cards, retail services or Citi as a whole, including as a result of loss of revenues, increased expenses, higher cost of credit, impairment of purchased credit card relationships and contract-related intangibles or other losses (for information on Citi’s credit card related intangibles generally, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

Citi’s Inability in Its Resolution Plan Submissions to Address Any Shortcomings or Deficiencies Identified or Guidance Provided by the FRB and FDIC Could Subject Citi to More Stringent Capital, Leverage or Liquidity Requirements, or Restrictions on Its Growth, Activities or Operations, and Could Eventually Require Citi to Divest Assets or Operations.

Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act requires Citi to prepare and submit a plan to the FRB and the FDIC for the orderly resolution of Citigroup (the bank holding company) and its significant legal entities under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of future material financial distress or failure. The eight U.S. GSIBs, including Citi, filed their most recent resolution plans with the FRB and FDIC on July 1, 2021. For additional information on Citi’s resolution plan submissions, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below.

Under Title I, if the FRB and the FDIC jointly determine that Citi’s resolution plan is not “credible” (which, although not defined, is generally believed to mean the regulators do not believe the plan is feasible or would otherwise allow Citi to be resolved in a way that protects systemically important functions without severe systemic disruption), or would not facilitate an orderly resolution of Citi under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and Citi fails to resubmit a resolution plan that remedies any identified deficiencies, Citi could be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on its growth, activities or operations. If within two years from the imposition of any such requirements or restrictions Citi has still not remediated any identified deficiencies, then Citi could eventually be required to divest certain assets or operations. Any such restrictions or actions would negatively impact Citi’s reputation, market and investor perception, operations and strategy.

Citi’s Performance and the Performance of Its Individual Businesses Could Be Negatively Impacted if Citi Is Not Able to Effectively Compete for, Retain and Motivate Highly Qualified Colleagues.

Recent employment conditions have made the competition to hire and retain qualified employees significantly more challenging. Citi’s performance and the performance of its individual businesses largely depend on the talents and efforts of its diverse and highly qualified colleagues. Specifically, Citi’s continued ability to compete in each of its lines of business, to manage its businesses effectively and to execute its global strategy depends on its ability to attract new colleagues and to retain and motivate its existing colleagues. If Citi is unable to continue to attract, retain and motivate the most highly qualified colleagues, Citi’s performance, including its competitive position, the execution of its strategy and its results of operations could be negatively impacted.

Citi’s ability to attract, retain and motivate colleagues depends on numerous factors, some of which are outside of its control. For example, the competition for talent recently has been particularly intense because of economic conditions associated with the pandemic. Also, the banking industry generally is subject to more comprehensive regulation of employee compensation than other industries, including deferral and clawback requirements for incentive compensation, which can make it unusually challenging for Citi to compete in labor markets against businesses that are not subject to such regulation. Citi often competes for talent with such businesses, including, among others, technology companies. Further, Citi’s vaccination requirement for its U.S.-based employees could make it more difficult to compete for or retain colleagues. Other factors that could impact its ability to attract, retain and motivate colleagues include, among other things, Citi’s presence in a particular market or region, the professional opportunities it offers and its reputation. For information on Citi’s colleagues and workforce management, see “Human Capital Resources and Management” below.

Financial Services Companies and Others as well as Emerging Technologies Pose Increasingly Competitive Challenges to Citi.

Citi operates in an increasingly evolving and competitive business environment, which includes both financial and non-financial services firms, such as traditional banks, online banks, financial technology companies and others. These companies compete on the basis of, among other factors, size, reach, quality and type of products and services offered, price, technology and reputation. Certain competitors may be subject to different and, in some cases, less stringent legal and regulatory requirements, placing Citi at a competitive disadvantage. 

Citi competes with financial services companies in the U.S. and globally that continue to develop and introduce new products and services. In recent years, non-financial services firms, such as financial technology companies, have begun to offer services traditionally provided by financial institutions, such as Citi, and have sought bank charters to provide these services. These firms attempt to use technology and mobile platforms to enhance the ability of companies and individuals to borrow, save and invest money. 

Moreover, emerging technologies have the potential to intensify competition and accelerate disruption in the financial services industry. For example, there is increasing interest 

50

from clients and investors in digital assets such as cryptocurrencies. Financial services firms and other market participants have begun to offer services related to those assets such as custody and trading. However, Citi may not be able to provide the same or similar services for legal or regulatory reasons and such services increase compliance risk. In addition, changes in the payments space (e.g., instant and 24x7 payments) are accelerating, and, as a result, certain of Citi’s products and services could become less competitive.

In addition, as discussed above, it is unclear how the macroeconomic business environment or societal norms may be impacted as a result of the pandemic. Citi may experience increased or different competitive and other challenges in a post-pandemic environment. Increased competition and emerging technologies have required and could require Citi to change or adapt its products and services to attract and retain customers or clients or to compete more effectively with competitors, including new market entrants. Simultaneously, as Citi develops new products and services leveraging emerging technologies, new risks may emerge that, if not designed and governed adequately, may result in control gaps and in Citi operating outside of its risk appetite. For example, instant and 24x7 payments products could be accompanied by challenges to forecasting and managing liquidity, as well as increased operational and compliance risks.

To the extent that Citi is not able to compete effectively with financial technology companies and other firms, Citi could be placed at a competitive disadvantage, which could result in loss of customers and market share, and its businesses, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. For additional information on Citi’s competitors, see the co-brand and private label cards and qualified colleagues risk factors above and “Supervision, Regulation and Other—Competition” below.

OPERATIONAL RISKS

A Failure or Disruption of Citi’s Operational Processes or Systems Could Negatively Impact Citi’s Reputation, Customers, Clients, Businesses or Results of Operations and Financial Condition.

Citi’s global operations rely heavily on its technology, including the accurate, timely and secure processing, management, storage and transmission of confidential transactions, data and other information as well as the monitoring of a substantial amount of data and complex transactions in real time. For example, Citi obtains and stores an extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its consumer and institutional customers and clients, and must accurately record and reflect their extensive account transactions. Citi’s operations must also comply with complex and evolving laws and regulations in the countries in which it operates.

With the evolving proliferation of new technologies and the increasing use of the internet, mobile devices and cloud technologies to conduct financial transactions, large global financial institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue to be, subject to an ever-increasing risk of operational loss, failure or disruption, including as a result of cyber or information security incidents. These risks have been exacerbated during the pandemic, when a substantial portion 

of Citi’s colleagues have worked remotely and customers and clients have increased their use of online banking and other platforms (for additional information, see the pandemic-related risk factor above and the cybersecurity risk factor below).

Although Citi has continued to upgrade its technology, including systems to automate processes and enhance efficiencies, operational incidents are unpredictable and can arise from numerous sources, not all of which are fully within Citi’s control. These include, among others, human error, such as manual transaction processing errors; fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties; accidental system or technological failure; electrical or telecommunication outages; failures of or cyber incidents involving computer servers or infrastructure; or other similar losses or damage to Citi’s property or assets (see also the climate change risk factor below). For example, Citi has experienced and could experience further losses associated with manual transaction processing errors (for additional information, see “Revlon-Related Wire Transfer Litigation” in Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 

Irrespective of the sophistication of the technology utilized by Citi, there will always be some room for human error. In view of the large transactions in which Citi engages, such errors could result in significant loss. 

Operational incidents can also arise as a result of failures by third parties with which Citi does business, such as failures by internet, mobile technology and cloud service providers or other vendors to adequately follow procedures or processes, safeguard their systems or prevent system disruptions or cyber attacks.

Incidents that impact information security and/or technology operations may cause disruptions and/or malfunctions within Citi’s businesses (e.g., the temporary loss of availability of Citi’s online banking system or mobile banking platform), as well as the operations of its clients, customers or other third parties. In addition, operational incidents could involve the failure or ineffectiveness of internal processes or controls. 

Given Citi’s global footprint and the high volume of transactions processed by Citi, certain failures, errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, which would further increase the consequences and costs. Operational incidents could result in financial losses as well as misappropriation, corruption or loss of confidential and other information or assets, which could significantly negatively impact Citi’s reputation, customers, clients, businesses or results of operations and financial condition. Cyber-related and other operational incidents can also result in legal and regulatory proceedings, fines and other costs (see the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor below).

For information on Citi’s management of operational risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Operational Risk” below.

51

Citi’s and Third Parties’ Computer Systems and Networks Have Been, and Will Continue to Be, Susceptible to an Increasing Risk of Continually Evolving, Sophisticated Cybersecurity Activities That Could Result in the Theft, Loss, Misuse or Disclosure of Confidential Client or Customer Information, Damage to Citi’s Reputation, Additional Costs to Citi, Regulatory Penalties, Legal Exposure and Financial Losses.

Citi’s computer systems, software and networks are subject to ongoing cyber incidents such as unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks and other similar events. These threats can arise from external parties, including cyber criminals, cyber terrorists, hacktivists and nation-state actors, as well as insiders who knowingly or unknowingly engage in or enable malicious cyber activities.

Third parties with which Citi does business, as well as retailers and other third parties with which Citi’s customers do business, may also be sources of cybersecurity risks, particularly where activities of customers are beyond Citi’s security and control systems. For example, Citi outsources certain functions, such as processing customer credit card transactions, uploading content on customer-facing websites and developing software for new products and services. These relationships allow for the storage and processing of customer information by third-party hosting of or access to Citi websites, which could lead to compromise or the potential to introduce vulnerable or malicious code, resulting in security breaches impacting Citi customers. Furthermore, because financial institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, including as a result of derivatives reforms over the last few years, Citi has increased exposure to cyber attacks through third parties. While many of Citi’s agreements with third parties include indemnification provisions, Citi may not be able to recover sufficiently, or at all, under the provisions to adequately offset any losses Citi may incur from third-party cyber incidents.

Citi has been subject to attempted and sometimes successful cyber attacks from external sources over the last several years, including (i) denial of service attacks, which attempt to interrupt service to clients and customers, (ii) hacking and malicious software installations, intended to gain unauthorized access to information systems or to disrupt those systems, (iii) data breaches due to unauthorized access to customer account data and (iv) malicious software attacks on client systems, in an attempt to gain unauthorized access to Citi systems or client data under the guise of normal client transactions. While Citi’s monitoring and protection services were able to detect and respond to the incidents targeting its systems before they became significant, they still resulted in limited losses in some instances as well as increases in expenditures to monitor against the threat of similar future cyber incidents. There can be no assurance that such cyber incidents will not occur again, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale.

Further, although Citi devotes significant resources to implement, maintain, monitor and regularly upgrade its systems and networks with measures such as intrusion detection and prevention and firewalls to safeguard critical 

business applications, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. Because the methods used to cause cyber attacks change frequently or, in some cases, are not recognized until launched or even later, Citi may be unable to implement effective preventive measures or proactively address these methods until they are discovered. In addition, given the evolving nature of cyber threat actors and the frequency and sophistication of the cyber activities they carry out, the determination of the severity and potential impact of a cyber incident may not become apparent for a substantial period of time following discovery of the incident. Also, while Citi engages in certain actions to reduce the exposure resulting from outsourcing, such as performing security control assessments of third-party vendors and limiting third-party access to the least privileged level necessary to perform job functions, these actions cannot prevent all third-party-related cyber attacks or data breaches.

Cyber incidents can result in the disclosure of personal, confidential or proprietary customer or client information, damage to Citi’s reputation with its clients and the market, customer dissatisfaction and additional costs to Citi, including expenses such as repairing systems, replacing customer payment cards, credit monitoring or adding new personnel or protection technologies. Regulatory penalties, loss of revenues, exposure to litigation and other financial losses, including loss of funds, to both Citi and its clients and customers and disruption to Citi’s operational systems could also result from cyber incidents (for additional information on the potential impact of operational disruptions, see the operational processes and systems risk factor above). Moreover, the increasing risk of cyber incidents has resulted in increased legislative and regulatory scrutiny of firms’ cybersecurity protection services and calls for additional laws and regulations to further enhance protection of consumers’ personal data.

While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions including significant self- insured deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses and may not take into account reputational harm, the cost of which could be immeasurable.

For additional information about Citi’s management of cybersecurity risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Operational Risk—Cybersecurity Risk” below.

Changes to or the Application of Incorrect Assumptions, Judgments or Estimates in Citi’s Financial Statements Could Cause Significant Unexpected Losses or Impacts in the Future.

U.S. GAAP requires Citi to use certain assumptions, judgments and estimates in preparing its financial statements, including, among other items, the estimate of the ACL; reserves related to litigation, regulatory and tax matters exposures; valuation of DTAs; the fair values of certain assets and liabilities; and the assessment of goodwill or other assets for impairment. If Citi’s assumptions, judgments or estimates underlying its financial statements are incorrect or differ from actual or subsequent events, Citi could experience unexpected 

52

losses or other adverse impacts, some of which could be significant.

For example, the CECL methodology requires that Citi provide reserves for a current estimate of lifetime expected credit losses for its loan portfolios and other financial assets, as applicable, at the time those assets are originated or acquired. This estimate is adjusted each period for changes in expected lifetime credit losses. Citi’s ACL estimate depends upon its CECL models and assumptions, forecasted macroeconomic conditions, including, among other things, U.S. unemployment rate and U.S. Real GDP, and the credit indicators, composition and other characteristics of Citi’s loan and other applicable financial assets. These model assumptions and forecasted macroeconomic conditions will change over time, whether due to the pandemic or otherwise, resulting in greater variability in Citi’s ACL compared to its provision for loan losses under the previous GAAP methodology, and, thus, impact its results of operations and financial condition, as well as regulatory capital due to the CECL phase-in beginning January 1, 2022.

Moreover, Citi has incurred losses related to its foreign operations that are reported in the CTA components of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI). In accordance with U.S. GAAP, a sale, substantial liquidation or any other deconsolidation event of any foreign operations, such as those related to Citi’s legacy or exit businesses, would result in reclassification of any foreign CTA component of AOCI related to that foreign operation, including related hedges and taxes, into Citi’s earnings. For example, Citi incurred a pretax loss of approximately $680 million ($580 million after-tax) in the third quarter of 2021 related to the sale of Citi’s Australia consumer banking business in Asia GCB, primarily reflecting the impact of a CTA loss. For additional information on Citi’s accounting policy for foreign currency translation and its foreign CTA components of AOCI, see Notes 1 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on the key areas for which assumptions and estimates are used in preparing Citi’s financial statements, including those related to Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and Notes 1 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Changes to Financial Accounting and Reporting Standards or Interpretations Could Have a Material Impact on How Citi Records and Reports Its Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Periodically, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issues financial accounting and reporting standards that govern key aspects of Citi’s financial statements or interpretations thereof when those standards become effective, including those areas where Citi is required to make assumptions or estimates. Changes to financial accounting or reporting standards or interpretations, whether promulgated or required by the FASB or other regulators, could present operational challenges and could also require Citi to change certain of the assumptions or estimates it previously used in preparing its financial statements, which could negatively impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations generally and/or with respect to particular businesses. For additional information on Citi’s accounting 

policies and changes in accounting, including the expected impacts on Citi’s results of operations and financial condition, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

If Citi’s Risk Management Processes, Strategies or Models Are Deficient or Ineffective, Citi May Incur Significant Losses and Its Regulatory Capital and Capital Ratios Could Be Negatively Impacted.

Citi utilizes a broad and diversified set of risk management and mitigation processes and strategies, including use of models in enacting processes and strategies as well as in analyzing and monitoring the various risks Citi assumes in conducting its activities. For example, Citi uses models as part of its comprehensive stress testing initiatives across the Company. Citi also relies on data to aggregate, assess and manage various risk exposures. Management of these risks is made even more challenging within a global financial institution such as Citi, particularly given the complex, diverse and rapidly changing financial markets and conditions in which Citi operates as well as that losses can occur unintentionally from untimely, inaccurate or incomplete processes.

In addition, in October 2020, Citigroup and Citibank entered into consent orders with the FRB and OCC that require Citigroup and Citibank to make improvements in various aspects of enterprise-wide risk management, compliance, data quality management and governance and internal controls (see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” above and the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor below).

Citi’s risk management processes, strategies and models are inherently limited because they involve techniques, including the use of historical data in many circumstances, assumptions and judgments that cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome in the markets in which Citi operates, nor can they anticipate the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Citi could incur significant losses, and its regulatory capital and capital ratios could be negatively impacted, if Citi’s risk management processes, including its ability to manage and aggregate data in a timely and accurate manner, strategies or models are deficient or ineffective. Such deficiencies or ineffectiveness could also result in inaccurate financial, regulatory or risk reporting.

Moreover, Citi’s Basel III regulatory capital models, including its credit, market and operational risk models, currently remain subject to ongoing regulatory review and approval, which may result in refinements, modifications or enhancements (required or otherwise) to these models. Modifications or requirements resulting from these ongoing reviews, as well as any future changes or guidance provided by the U.S. banking agencies regarding the regulatory capital framework applicable to Citi, have resulted in, and could continue to result in, significant changes to Citi’s risk- weighted assets. These changes can negatively impact Citi’s capital ratios and its ability to achieve its regulatory capital requirements.

53

CREDIT RISKS

Credit Risk and Concentrations of Risk Can Increase the Potential for Citi to Incur Significant Losses.

Credit risk primarily arises from Citi’s lending and other businesses in both ICG and GCB. Citi has credit exposures to consumer, corporate and public sector borrowers and other counterparties in the U.S. and various countries and jurisdictions globally, including end-of-period consumer loans of $271 billion and end-of-period corporate loans of $397 billion at year-end 2021.

A default by a borrower or other counterparty, or a decline in the credit quality or value of any underlying collateral, exposes Citi to credit risk. Despite Citi’s target client strategy, various macroeconomic, geopolitical and other factors, among other things, can increase Citi’s credit risk and credit costs, particularly for certain sectors, industries or countries (for additional information, see the pandemic-related, co-branding and private label credit card and macroeconomic challenges and uncertainties risk factors above and the emerging markets risk factor below). For example, a weakening of economic conditions, including higher unemployment levels, can adversely affect borrowers’ ability to repay their obligations. In addition, weakening economic conditions may result in Citi being unable to liquidate its collateral, as well as disputes with counterparties regarding the valuation of collateral Citi holds and Citi being unable to realize the fair value of such collateral.

While Citi provides reserves for expected losses for its credit exposures, as applicable, such reserves are subject to judgments and estimates that could be incorrect or differ from actual future events. Under the CECL accounting standard, the ACL reflects expected losses, rather than incurred losses, which has resulted in and could lead to additional volatility in the allowance and the provision for credit losses as forecasts of economic conditions change. In addition, Citi’s future allowance may be affected by seasonality of its cards portfolio balances based on historical evidence showing that (i) credit card balances typically decrease during the first and second quarters, as borrowers use tax refunds to pay down balances; and (ii) balances increase during the third and fourth quarters each year as payments are no longer impacted by tax refunds and the holiday season approaches. However, these seasonal trends could be affected in 2022 due to the impacts of the pandemic, government stimulus and expiration of consumer and small business relief programs. For additional information, see the incorrect assumptions or estimates and changes to financial accounting and reporting standards risk factors above. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and Notes 1 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on Citi’s credit and country risk, see each respective business’s results of operations above and “Managing Global Risk—Credit Risk” and “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Country Risk” below and Notes 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Concentrations of risk to clients or counterparties engaged in the same or related industries or doing business in a particular geography, especially credit and market risks, can also increase Citi’s risk of significant losses. As of year-end 

2021, Citi’s most significant concentration of credit risk was with the U.S. government and its agencies, which primarily results from trading assets and investments issued by the U.S. government and its agencies (for additional information, including concentrations of credit risk to other public sector entities, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). In addition, Citi routinely executes a high volume of securities, trading, derivative and foreign exchange transactions with non-U.S. sovereigns and with counterparties in the financial services industry, including banks, insurance companies, investment banks, governments, central banks and other financial institutions. Moreover, Citi has indemnification obligations in connection with various transactions that expose it to concentrations of risk, including credit risk from hedging or reinsurance arrangements related to those obligations (for additional information about these exposures, see Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). A rapid deterioration of a large borrower or other counterparty or within a sector or country in which Citi has large exposures or indemnifications or unexpected market dislocations could cause Citi to incur significant losses.

LIQUIDITY RISKS

The Maintenance of Adequate Liquidity and Funding Depends on Numerous Factors, Including Those Outside of Citi’s Control, Such as Market Disruptions and Increases in Citi’s Credit Spreads.

As a large, global financial institution, adequate liquidity and sources of funding are essential to Citi’s businesses. Citi’s liquidity and sources of funding can be significantly and negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such as general disruptions in the financial markets, governmental fiscal and monetary policies, regulatory changes or negative investor perceptions of Citi’s creditworthiness, unexpected increases in cash or collateral requirements and the inability to monetize available liquidity resources, whether due to the pandemic or otherwise. Citi competes with other banks and financial institutions for both institutional and consumer deposits, which represent Citi’s most stable and lowest cost source of long-term funding. The competition for deposits has continued to increase in recent years, including, among others, as a result of online banks and digital banking. Furthermore, although Citi has had robust deposit growth since the onset of the pandemic, it remains unclear how “sticky” (likely to remain at Citi) those deposits may be, particularly in a less monetarily accommodative environment.

Moreover, Citi’s costs to obtain and access secured funding and long-term unsecured funding are directly related to its credit spreads and changes in interest and currency exchange rates. Changes in credit spreads are driven by both external market factors and factors specific to Citi, such as negative views by investors of the financial services industry or Citi’s financial prospects, and can be highly volatile. For additional information on Citi’s primary sources of funding, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below.

Citi’s ability to obtain funding may be impaired and its cost of funding could increase if other market participants are seeking to access the markets at the same time, or if market appetite declines, as is likely to occur in a liquidity stress event or other market crisis. A sudden drop in market liquidity could 

54

also cause a temporary or lengthier dislocation of underwriting and capital markets activity. In addition, clearing organizations, central banks, clients and financial institutions with which Citi interacts may exercise the right to require additional collateral based on their perceptions or the market conditions, which could further impair Citi’s access to and cost of funding.

In addition, as a holding company, Citi relies on interest, dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends as well as to satisfy its debt and other obligations. Several of Citi’s U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are or may be subject to capital adequacy or other liquidity, regulatory or contractual restrictions on their ability to provide such payments, including any local regulatory stress test requirements. Citi’s broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund their businesses. Limitations on the payments that Citi receives from its subsidiaries could also impact its liquidity. A bank holding company is required by law to act as a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result, the FRB may require Citi to commit resources to its subsidiary banks even if doing so is not otherwise in the interests of Citi or its shareholders or creditors, reducing the amount of funds available to meet its obligations. In addition, in the event of a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization, Citi’s right to participate in a distribution of such subsidiary’s assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.

The Credit Rating Agencies Continuously Review the Credit Ratings of Citi and Certain of Its Subsidiaries, and a Ratings Downgrade Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Funding and Liquidity Due to Reduced Funding Capacity and Increased Funding Costs, Including Derivatives Triggers That Could Require Cash Obligations or Collateral Requirements.

The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch, Moody’s and S&P Global Ratings, continuously evaluate Citi and certain of its subsidiaries. Their ratings of Citi and its more significant subsidiaries’ long-term/ senior debt and short-term/commercial paper are based on a number of factors, including standalone financial strength, as well as factors that are not entirely within the control of Citi and its subsidiaries, such as the agencies’ proprietary rating methodologies and assumptions, and conditions affecting the financial services industry and markets generally.

Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. A ratings downgrade could negatively impact Citi’s ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds as well as the costs of those funds, and its ability to maintain certain deposits. A ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on Citi’s funding and liquidity due to reduced funding capacity and the impact from derivative triggers, which could require Citi to meet cash obligations and collateral requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade could have a negative impact on other funding sources such as secured financing and other margined transactions for which there may be no explicit triggers, and 

on contractual provisions and other credit requirements of Citi’s counterparties and clients that may contain minimum ratings thresholds in order for Citi to hold third-party funds. Some entities could have ratings limitations on their permissible counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware.

Furthermore, a credit ratings downgrade could have impacts that may not be currently known to Citi or are not possible to quantify. Certain of Citi’s corporate customers and trading counterparties, among other clients, could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit the trading of certain contracts or market instruments with Citi in response to ratings downgrades. Changes in customer and counterparty behavior could impact not only Citi’s funding and liquidity but also the results of operations of certain Citi businesses. For additional information on the potential impact of a reduction in Citi’s or Citibank’s credit ratings, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below.

COMPLIANCE RISKS

Ongoing Interpretation and Implementation of Regulatory and Legislative Requirements and Changes and Heightened Regulatory Scrutiny and Expectations in the U.S. and Globally Have Increased Citi’s Compliance, Regulatory and Other Risks and Costs.

Citi is continually required to interpret and implement extensive and frequently changing regulatory and legislative requirements in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which it does business, resulting in substantial compliance, regulatory and other risks and costs. In addition, there are heightened regulatory scrutiny and expectations in the U.S. and globally for large financial institutions, as well as their employees and agents, with respect to governance, infrastructure, data and risk management practices and controls. These requirements and expectations also include, among other things, those related to customer and client protection, market practices, anti-money laundering and sanctions. A failure to comply with these requirements and expectations or resolve any identified deficiencies could result in increased regulatory oversight and restrictions, enforcement proceedings, penalties and fines (for additional information, see the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor below). 

Over the past several years, Citi has been required to implement a significant number of regulatory and legislative changes across all of its businesses and functions, and these changes continue. The changes themselves may be complex and subject to interpretation, and will require continued investments in Citi’s global operations and technology solutions. In some cases, Citi’s implementation of a regulatory or legislative requirement is occurring simultaneously with changing or conflicting regulatory guidance, legal challenges or legislative action to modify or repeal existing rules or enact new rules. Moreover, in some cases, there have been entirely new regulatory or legislative requirements or regimes, resulting in large volumes of regulation and potential uncertainty regarding regulatory expectations for compliance.

Examples of regulatory or legislative changes that have resulted in increased compliance risks and costs include (i) various laws relating to the limitation of cross-border data movement and/or collection and use of customer information, 

55

including data localization and protection and privacy laws, which also can conflict with or increase compliance complexity with respect to other laws, including anti-money laundering laws; (ii) the FRB’s “total loss absorbing capacity” (TLAC) requirements; and (iii) the U.S. banking agencies’ regulatory capital rules and requirements, which have continued to evolve (for additional information, see the capital return risk factor and “Capital Resources” above). In addition, the U.S. banking agencies have prioritized issues of social, economic and racial justice, and are in the process of considering ways in which these issues can be mitigated, including through rulemaking, supervision and other means.

Increased and ongoing compliance and regulatory requirements, uncertainties, scrutiny and expectations have resulted in higher compliance costs for Citi, in part due to an increase in risk, regulatory and compliance staff over the last several years. Extensive and changing compliance requirements can also result in increased reputational and legal risks for Citi, as failure to comply with regulations and requirements, or failure to comply with regulatory expectations, can result in enforcement and/or regulatory proceedings, penalties and fines.

Citi Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory Proceedings, Examinations, Investigations, Consent Orders and Related Compliance Efforts and Other Inquiries That Could Result in Significant Monetary Penalties, Supervisory or Enforcement Orders, Business Restrictions, Limitations on Dividends, Changes to Directors and/or Officers and Collateral Consequences Arising from Such Outcomes.

At any given time, Citi is a party to a significant number of legal and regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous governmental and regulatory examinations, investigations, consent orders and related compliance efforts, and other inquiries. Citi can also be subject to enforcement proceedings not only because of violations of laws and regulations, but also due to failures, as determined by its regulators, to have adequate policies and procedures, or to remedy deficiencies on a timely basis.

The October 2020 FRB and OCC consent orders require Citigroup and Citibank to implement targeted action plans and quarterly progress reports detailing the results and status of improvements relating principally to various aspects of enterprise-wide risk management, compliance, data quality management and governance and internal controls. These improvements will result in continued significant investments by Citi during 2022 and beyond, as an essential part of Citi’s broader transformation efforts to enhance its infrastructure, governance, processes and risk and controls. 

Although there are no restrictions on Citi’s ability to serve its clients, the OCC consent order requires Citibank to obtain prior approval of any significant new acquisition, including any portfolio or business acquisition, excluding ordinary course transactions. Moreover, the OCC consent order provides that the OCC has the right to assess future civil money penalties or take other supervisory and/or enforcement actions, including where the OCC determines Citibank has not made sufficient and sustainable progress to address the required improvements. Such actions by the OCC could include imposing business restrictions, including possible 

limitations on the declaration or payment of dividends and changes in directors and/or senior executive officers. More generally, the OCC and/or the FRB could take additional enforcement or other actions if the regulatory agency believes that Citi has not met regulatory expectations regarding compliance with the consent orders. For additional information regarding the consent orders, see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” above.

The global judicial, regulatory and political environment has generally been challenging for large financial institutions. The complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global scope of Citi’s operations, also means that a single event or issue may give rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies and authorities in the U.S. or by multiple regulators and other governmental entities in different jurisdictions, as well as multiple civil litigation claims in multiple jurisdictions.

U.S. and non-U.S. regulators have been increasingly focused on “conduct risk,” a term used to describe the risks associated with behavior by employees and agents, including third parties, that could harm clients, customers, employees or the integrity of the markets, such as improperly creating, selling, marketing or managing products and services or improper incentive compensation programs with respect thereto, failures to safeguard a party’s personal information, or failures to identify and manage conflicts of interest. In addition to the greater focus on conduct risk, the general heightened scrutiny and expectations from regulators could lead to investigations and other inquiries, as well as remediation requirements, more regulatory or other enforcement proceedings, civil litigation and higher compliance and other risks and costs.

Further, while Citi takes numerous steps to prevent and detect conduct by employees and agents that could potentially harm clients, customers, employees or the integrity of the markets, such behavior may not always be deterred or prevented. Banking regulators have also focused on the overall culture of financial services firms, including Citi.

In addition to regulatory restrictions or structural changes that could result from perceived deficiencies in Citi’s culture, such focus could also lead to additional regulatory proceedings. Furthermore, the severity of the remedies sought in legal and regulatory proceedings to which Citi is subject has remained elevated. U.S. and certain non-U.S. governmental entities have increasingly brought criminal actions against, or have sought criminal convictions from, financial institutions and individual employees, and criminal prosecutors in the U.S. have increasingly sought and obtained criminal guilty pleas or deferred prosecution agreements against corporate entities and individuals and other criminal sanctions for those institutions and individuals. These types of actions by U.S. and international governmental entities may, in the future, have significant collateral consequences for a financial institution, including loss of customers and business, and the inability to offer certain products or services and/or operate certain businesses. Citi may be required to accept or be subject to similar types of criminal remedies, consent orders, sanctions, substantial fines and penalties, remediation and other financial 

56

costs or other requirements in the future, including for matters or practices not yet known to Citi, any of which could materially and negatively affect Citi’s businesses, business practices, financial condition or results of operations, require material changes in Citi’s operations or cause Citi reputational harm.

Further, many large claims—both private civil and regulatory—asserted against Citi are highly complex, slow to develop and may involve novel or untested legal theories. The outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings. Although Citi establishes accruals for its legal and regulatory matters according to accounting requirements, Citi’s estimates of, and changes to, these accruals involve significant judgment and may be subject to significant uncertainty, and the amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be substantially higher than the amounts accrued (see the incorrect assumptions or estimates risk factor above). In addition, certain settlements are subject to court approval and may not be approved.

OTHER RISKS

Citi’s Presence in the Emerging Markets Subjects It to Various Risks as well as Increased Compliance and Regulatory Risks and Costs.

During 2021, emerging markets revenues accounted for approximately 35% of Citi’s total revenues (Citi generally defines emerging markets as countries in Latin America, Asia (other than Japan, Australia and New Zealand), and central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa in EMEA).

Although Citi continues to pursue its target client strategy, Citi’s presence in the emerging markets subjects it to various risks, such as limitations or unavailability of hedges on foreign investments; foreign currency volatility, including devaluations, sovereign volatility, election outcomes, regulatory changes and political events; foreign exchange controls, including inability to access indirect foreign exchange mechanisms; macroeconomic volatility and disruptions, including with respect to commodity prices; limitations on foreign investment; sociopolitical instability (including from hyperinflation); fraud; nationalization or loss of licenses; business restrictions; sanctions or asset freezes; potential criminal charges; closure of branches or subsidiaries; and confiscation of assets, whether related to geopolitical conflicts or otherwise; and these risks can be exacerbated in the event of a deterioration in relationships between the U.S. and an emerging market country. For example, Citi operates in several countries that have, or have had in the past, strict capital and currency controls, such as Argentina, that limit its ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and/or transfer funds outside of those countries. Among other things, Citi faces a risk of devaluation on its unhedged Argentine peso-denominated assets, which continue to increase (for further information on this and other risks, see “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Country Risk—Argentina” below).

Moreover, if the economic situation in an emerging markets country in which Citi operates were to deteriorate below a certain level, U.S. regulators may impose mandatory loan loss or other reserve requirements on Citi, which would 

increase its credit costs and decrease its earnings (for further information, see “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Country Risk—Argentina” below). 

In addition, political turmoil and instability have occurred in various regions and emerging market countries across the globe which have required, and may continue to require, management time and attention and other resources (such as monitoring the impact of sanctions on certain emerging markets economies as well as impacting Citi’s businesses and results of operations in affected countries).

Climate Change Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Results of Operations and Financial Condition.

Citi operates in countries, states and regions in which many of its businesses, and the activities of many of its customers and clients, are exposed to the adverse impacts of climate change, as well as uncertainties related to the transition to a low-carbon economy. Climate change presents both immediate and long-term risks to Citi and its customers and clients, with the risks expected to increase over time.

Climate risks can arise from both physical risks (those risks related to the physical effects of climate change) and transition risks (risks related to regulatory, compliance, technological, stakeholder and legal changes from a transition to a low-carbon economy). The physical and transition risks can manifest themselves differently across Citi’s risk categories in the short, medium and long terms. 

The physical risk from climate change could result from increased frequency and/or severity of adverse weather events. For example, adverse weather events could damage or destroy Citi’s or its counterparties’ properties and other assets and disrupt operations, making it more difficult for counterparties to repay their obligations, whether due to reduced profitability, asset devaluations or otherwise. These events could also increase the volatility in financial markets affecting Citi’s trading businesses and increase its counterparty exposures and other financial risks, which may result in lower revenues and higher cost of credit. 

Transition risks may arise from changes in regulations or market preferences toward a low-carbon economy, which in turn could have negative impacts on asset values, results of operations or the reputations of Citi and its customers and clients. For example, Citi’s corporate credit exposures include oil and gas, power and other industries that may experience reduced demand for carbon-intensive products due to the transition to a low-carbon economy. Moreover, U.S. and non-U.S. banking regulators and others are increasingly focusing on the issue of climate risk at financial institutions, both directly and with respect to their clients. As an example, on December 16, 2021, the OCC requested feedback on draft principles designed to support the identification and management of climate-related financial risks at institutions with more than $100 billion in total consolidated assets. 

Even as regulators begin to mandate additional disclosure of climate-related information by companies across sectors, there may continue to be a lack of information for more robust climate-related risk analyses. Third party exposures to climate-related risks and other data generally are limited in availability and variable in quality. Modeling capabilities to analyze climate-related risks and interconnections are improving but 

57

remain incomplete. Legislative or regulatory uncertainties and changes regarding climate-related risk management and disclosures are likely to result in higher regulatory, compliance, credit, reputational and other risks and costs (for additional information, see the ongoing regulatory and legislative uncertainties and changes risk factor above). In addition, Citi could face increased regulatory, reputational and legal scrutiny as a result of its climate risk, sustainability and other ESG related commitments.

For information on Citi’s climate and other sustainability initiatives, see “Sustainability and Other ESG Matters” below. For additional information on Citi’s management of climate risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Climate Risk” below.

The Transition Away from and Discontinuance of the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and Any Other Interest Rate Benchmark Could Have Adverse Consequences for Market Participants, Including Citi.

For decades, LIBOR and other rates or indices deemed to be benchmarks have been widely used across financial products and markets globally. These benchmarks have been the subject of ongoing national and international regulatory scrutiny and reform, resulting in regulators generally expecting or requiring banks, including Citi, to cease entering into new contracts that reference USD LIBOR as a benchmark by December 31, 2021. The LIBOR administrator ceased publication of non-USD LIBOR and one-week and two-month USD LIBOR on a representative basis on December 31, 2021, with plans to cease publication of all other USD LIBOR tenors on June 30, 2023. As a result, Citi ceased entering into new contracts referencing USD LIBOR as of January 1, 2022, other than for limited purposes as permitted by regulatory guidance. 

LIBOR and other benchmarks have been used in a substantial number of Citi’s outstanding securities and products, including, among others, derivatives, corporate loans, commercial and residential mortgages, credit cards, securitized products and other structured securities. Despite ongoing actions to prepare for the transition away from LIBOR (see “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—LIBOR Transition Risk” below), market participants, including Citi, may not be adequately prepared for uncertainties associated with these benchmarks’ discontinuance or, as necessary, be able to successfully modify their outstanding contracts or products that reference these benchmarks. For example, the transition away from and discontinuance of LIBOR or any other benchmark rate presents various uncertainties and operational, legal, reputational or compliance, financial and other risks and challenges to holders of these contracts and products, as well as financial markets and institutions, including Citi. These include, among others, the pricing, liquidity, observability, value of, return on and market for financial instruments and contracts that reference LIBOR or any other benchmark rate.

While Citi has adopted alternative reference rates for new contracts to replace these outgoing benchmarks, in some instances, it is possible that the characteristics of these new rates may not be sufficiently similar to, or produce the economic equivalent of, the benchmark rates that they are intended to replace. Alternative reference rates, such as the 

Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), are calculated using components different from those used in the calculation of LIBOR and may fluctuate differently than, and not be representative of, LIBOR. In order to compensate for these differences, certain of Citi’s financial instruments and commercial agreements allow for a benchmark replacement adjustment. However, there can be no assurance that any benchmark replacement adjustment will be sufficient to produce the economic equivalent of LIBOR, either at the benchmark replacement date or over the life of such instruments and agreements. 

Further, investors, counterparties and other market participants may not consider the new alternative rates to be a suitable substitute or successor for all of the purposes for which these benchmarks have historically been used (including, without limitation, as a representation of the unsecured short-term funding costs of banks), which may, in turn, reduce their market acceptance. Any failure of the alternative rates to gain broad market acceptance could adversely affect market demand for Citi’s products or securities linked to such alternative rates and thus market prices of such instruments. As part of its transition, Citi is relying or has relied on guidance provided by the accounting standard setters related to the transition away from LIBOR. In the event that such guidance is insufficient or otherwise unable to be implemented as intended, LIBOR transition could

disrupt Citi’s hedge accounting relationships and/or lead

to increased costs in connection with determining whether contract amendments result in a modification or an extinguishment from an accounting perspective. Changes in observability of the alternative reference rates could impact the fair value hierarchy classification of financial instruments and contracts. 

Moreover, the LIBOR transition presents challenges related to contractual mechanics of existing financial instruments and contracts that reference such benchmarks that mature after discontinuance of the relevant benchmark. Certain of these legacy instruments and contracts do not provide for fallbacks to alternative reference rates, which makes it unclear what the applicable future replacement benchmark rates and associated payments might be after the current benchmark’s cessation. Citi may not be able to amend certain instruments and contracts due to an inability to obtain sufficient levels of consent from counterparties or security holders. Although this will depend on the precise contractual terms of the instrument, such consent requirements are often conditions of securities, such as floating rate notes. 

Even if the instruments and contracts provide for a transition to an alternative reference rate, the new rate may, particularly in times of financial stress, significantly differ from the prior rates. As a result, Citi may need to consider proactively addressing any contractual uncertainties or rate differences in such instruments and contracts, which would likely be both time consuming and costly, and may not ultimately be successful. While statutory solutions have been enacted in certain jurisdictions to address these contractual concerns (for example, the State of New York and the EU), the availability and effectiveness of these statutory mechanisms to cover all impacted financial instruments and products to which Citi is a party is uncertain.

58

In addition, the transition away from and discontinuance of LIBOR and other benchmark rates have subjected financial institutions, including Citi, to heightened scrutiny from regulators. Failure to successfully transition away from LIBOR and other benchmark rates could result in adverse regulatory actions, disputes, including potential litigation involving holders of outstanding products and contracts that reference LIBOR, and other benchmark rates and reputational harm to Citi. Citi may also need to further invest in and develop internal systems and infrastructure to transition to alternative benchmark rates to manage its businesses and support its clients.

59

SUSTAINABILITY AND OTHER ESG MATTERS

Introduction

Citi has progressively developed its understanding of environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues for more than 20 years and has a demonstrated record of ESG progress, including participating in the creation and adoption of ESG-related principles and standards. This section summarizes some of Citi’s key ESG initiatives, including its Sustainable Progress Strategy and net zero and Action for Racial Equity commitments. 

In January 2022, Citi published its 2021 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report to provide its stakeholders with information on Citi’s continued progress to address climate risk and to fulfill its commitment to publish an initial net zero plan within one year of announcing the net zero commitment. This represents Citi’s fourth TCFD Report.

For information regarding Citi’s management of climate risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Climate Risk” below. 

ESG and Climate-Related Governance

ESG Governance

Citi’s Board of Directors (Board) provides oversight of Citi’s management activities to ensure responsible business practices (for additional information, see “Managing Global Risk—Risk Governance” below). For example, the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee of the Board oversees many of Citi’s ESG activities, including reviewing Citi’s policies and programs for environmental and social sustainability, climate change, human rights, diversity and other ESG issues, as well as advising on engagement with external stakeholders.

The Risk Management Committee of the Board provides oversight of Citi’s Independent Risk Management function and reviews Citi’s risk policies and frameworks, including receiving climate risk-related updates. 

In 2021, Citi formed a Global ESG Council consisting of senior members of its management in order to provide enhanced oversight of Citi’s ESG goals and activities. In addition, a number of teams and senior managers contribute to the oversight of different areas such as sustainability; community investing; talent and diversity; ethics and business practices; and remuneration. 

Climate Change Governance

Citi’s oversight of climate risk has continued to evolve with its expanding climate commitments. In 2021, Citi established its ESG Council, expanded its Climate Risk team and enhanced its climate risk and net zero-related governance through creation of a Net Zero Task Force. The Task Force, led by Citi’s Chief Sustainability Officer and including leaders from various business units, was established to support the development and launch of Citi’s net zero plan.

Key ESG Initiatives

Sustainable Progress Strategy

Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy is summarized in its Environmental and Social Policy Framework. The three pillars of the strategy each have climate-related elements and serve as the foundation for Citi’s climate commitments. 

•The first pillar, “Low-Carbon Transition,” focuses on financing and facilitating low-carbon solutions and supporting Citi’s clients in their decarbonization and transition strategies. 

•The second pillar, “Climate Risk,” focuses on Citi’s efforts to measure, manage and reduce the climate risk and impact of its client portfolio. Areas of activity include, portfolio analysis and stakeholder engagement as well as enhancing TCFD implementation and disclosure. 

•The third pillar, “Sustainable Operations,” focuses on Citi’s efforts to reduce the environmental footprint of its facilities and strengthen its sustainability culture. This includes minimizing the impact of its global operations through operational footprint goals and further integrates sustainable practices across all countries in which Citi operates.

Net Zero Emissions by 2050

In March 2021, Citi announced its commitment to achieving net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with its financing by 2050, and net zero GHG emissions for its operations by 2030; both are significant targets given the size and breadth of Citi’s lending portfolios and businesses. Citi made this commitment as part of its ongoing work to reduce its climate impact and help address the challenges that climate change poses to the global economy and broader society. Citi’s net zero commitment demonstrates how identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities remains a top business priority for Citi.

While many financial institutions, including Citi, face increasing public pressure to divest from carbon-intensive sectors, Citi believes it has an important role to play in advising and financing the transition to net zero, and it plans to work closely with clients in this effort. Citi recognizes that large-scale, rapid divestment could result in an abrupt and disorderly transition to a low-carbon economy, creating both economic and social upheaval on a global scale. Citi believes that an orderly, responsible and equitable transition, which accounts for the immediate economic needs of communities, workers, environmental justice and broader economic development concerns, is essential for the retention of political and social support to move to a low-carbon economy.

Citi’s 2021 TCFD Report discusses its initial 2050 net zero plan, including 2030 emissions targets for its Energy and Power loan portfolios that were developed in line with the Net Zero Banking Alliance Guidelines for Climate Target Setting for Banks. Citi’s net zero plan incorporates a twofold approach: (i) assessment of climate-related factors affecting its clients, and (ii) engagement to understand their transition opportunities.

60

Citi’s net zero approach includes the following areas of activity:

•Client Transition Assessment, Advisory and Finance: Seek to understand clients’ GHG emissions and work with them to develop their transition plans and advise on capacity building

•Clean Tech Finance: Support clients and expedite the commercialization and adoption of climate technology globally through transition and environmental finance as well as public-private partnerships

•Public Policy Engagement: Support enabling public policy and regulation in the U.S. and other countries, including through trade associations and other industry groups

•Risk Management: Assess climate risk exposure across Citi’s lending portfolios and review client carbon reduction progress, with ongoing review and refining of Citi’s ESRM Policy as needed

•Portfolio Management: Active portfolio management to align with net zero targets, including considerations of transition measures taken by clients

The 2050 net zero commitment includes the following framework, delineating the key areas required to achieve its commitment:

•Calculate Emissions: Calculate baseline financed emissions for each carbon-intensive sector

•Transition Pathway: Identify the appropriate climate scenario transition pathway

•Target Setting: Establish emissions reduction targets for 2030 and beyond

•Implementation Strategy: Engage with and assess clients to determine transition opportunities

•External Engagement: Solicit feedback from clients, investors and other stakeholders, as the work continues to evolve and the parties collectively define net zero for the banking sector

In 2021, Citi continued to expand its participation in the financial industry’s net zero leadership initiatives. Citi is a member of key industry initiatives that enhance its understanding of climate-related issues, improve its access to data and promote efficient communication and coordination across various climate efforts. These initiatives include the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials, the Net Zero Banking Alliance and the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero.

Action for Racial Equity

Effectively responding to the needs of communities of color in the U.S. represents a strategic imperative for the private sector. A wide range of data and studies have found that many major gaps in economic opportunity, education, income, housing and wealth run along racial lines, particularly between Black and white households. These gaps have not only had implications for Black Americans and other people of color but the broader economy as well. 

Accordingly, in September 2020, Citi and the Citi Foundation announced Action for Racial Equity to help provide greater access to banking and credit in communities of color, increase investment in Black-owned businesses, expand affordable housing and homeownership among Black Americans and advance anti-racist practices within Citi and across the financial services industry. As part of Action for Racial Equity, Citi and the Citi Foundation have invested more than $1 billion in strategic initiatives to help close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the U.S. Action for Racial Equity builds on Citi’s longstanding focus on advancing financial inclusion and economic opportunity for communities of color in the U.S. and accelerates its efforts in a time of increased calls for racial equity and shifting population demographics in a changing economy. 

In line with Citi’s continued commitment to expand access to banking products and services that can help advance economic progress—especially for underbanked and unbanked communities—on February 24, 2022, Citi announced plans to eliminate overdraft fees, returned item fees and overdraft protection fees by mid 2022. In addition to eliminating these fees, Citi will continue to offer a robust suite of free overdraft protection services for its consumers. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details of Citi’s Commissions and fees revenues.

Additional Information

For additional information on Citi’s environmental and social policies and priorities, see Citi’s website at www.citigroup.com. Click on “About Us” and then “Environmental, Social and Governance.” For information on Citi’s ESG and Sustainability (including climate change) governance, see Citi’s 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement available at www.citigroup.com. Click on “Investors” and then “Annual Reports & Proxy Statements.” 

The 2021 TCFD Report and any other ESG-related reports and information included elsewhere on Citi’s investor relations website are not incorporated by reference into, and do not form any part of this 2021 Annual Report on Form 

10-K.

61

HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES AND MANAGEMENT

Attracting and retaining a highly qualified and motivated workforce is a strategic priority for Citi. Citi seeks to enhance the competitive strength of its workforce through the following efforts:

•Continuous innovation in recruiting, training, compensation, promotion and engagement of colleagues. 

•Actively seeking and listening to diverse perspectives at all levels of the organization.

•Optimizing transparency concerning workforce goals, to promote accountability, credibility and effectiveness in achieving those goals.

Workforce Size and Distribution

As of December 31, 2021, Citi employed approximately 223,400 colleagues in nearly 100 countries. The Company’s workforce is constantly evolving and developing, benefiting from a strong mix of internal and external hiring into new and existing positions. In 2021, Citi welcomed 46,907 new colleagues in addition to the roles filled by colleagues through internal mobility. The following table shows the geographic distribution of those colleagues by segment, region and gender:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Colleague distribution is based on assigned business and region, which may not reflect where the colleague physically resides. 

(2) Part-time colleagues represented less than 1.5% of Citi’s global workforce.

Board Oversight

Citi devotes substantial resources to managing its workforce, guided by a culture of accountability and excellence. Citigroup’s Board of Directors (the Board) provides strategic oversight and direction to management regarding workforce policies and includes many members with experience in overseeing workforce issues. 

In addition, the Board’s Personnel and Compensation Committee regularly reviews management’s achievements against human capital management goals, such as addressing representation of women and U.S. minorities in assistant vice president (AVP) to managing director (MD) levels, as well as talent recruitment and development initiatives.

The Board works with the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee to evaluate potential successors to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). With respect to regular succession of the CEO and senior management, Citi’s Board evaluates internal, and, when appropriate, external candidates. To find external candidates, Citi seeks input from members of the Board, senior management and recruiting firms. To develop internal candidates, Citi engages in a number of practices, formal and informal, designed to familiarize the Board with Citi’s talent pool. The formal process involves an annual talent review conducted by senior management at which the Board studies the most promising members of senior management. The Board learns about each person’s experience, skills, areas of expertise, accomplishments, goals and risk and control assessments. This review is conducted at a regularly scheduled Board meeting on an annual basis.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Citigroup’s Board is committed to ensuring that the Board and Citi’s Executive Management Team (see “Managing Global Risk—Risk Governance” below) are composed of individuals whose backgrounds reflect the diversity represented by Citi’s employees, customers and stakeholders. In addition, over the past several years, Citi has increased efforts to diversify its workforce, including, among other things, taking actions with respect to pay equity, representation goals and use of diverse slates in recruiting.

Pay Equity 

Citi has focused on measuring and addressing pay equity within the organization:

•In 2018, Citi was the first major U.S. financial institution to publicly release the results of a pay equity review comparing its compensation of women to men and U.S. minorities to U.S. non-minorities. Since 2018, Citi has continued to be transparent about pay equity, including disclosing its unadjusted or “raw” pay gap for both women and U.S. minorities.

•Citi’s 2021 pay equity review determined that, on an adjusted basis, women globally are paid on average more than 99% of what men are paid at Citi. In addition, the review determined there was no statistically significant difference in adjusted compensation between U.S. minorities and non-minorities. Following the review, 

62

appropriate pay adjustments were made as part of Citi’s 2021 compensation cycle.

•Citi’s 2021 raw gap analysis showed that the median pay for women globally is 74% of the median for men, similar to 2020, and up from 73% in 2019 and 71% in 2018. The median pay for U.S. minorities is more than 96% of the median for non-minorities, which is up from just under 94% in 2020, 94% in 2019 and 93% in 2018.

Representation Goals

Increasing the number of women globally and U.S. Black employees into senior AVP to MD levels will position Citi to further close the raw pay gap and increase the diversity of the Company. At the AVP to MD levels, Citi established representation goals of 40% for women globally and 8% for U.S. Black employees by the end of 2021. As of December 31, 2021, Citi exceeded its goals for AVP to MD levels for women globally (at 40.6%) and U.S. Black employees (at 8.1%).

Citi is the first major Wall Street bank to participate in Management Leadership for Tomorrow’s Black Equity at Work Certification, to help measure internal progress toward Black equity in the workplace. 

In addition, consistent with its ongoing support of measurement and transparency, Citi will conduct a third-party racial equity audit to help assess the true impact of Citi’s Action for Racial Equity initiatives (for additional information, see “Sustainability and Other ESG Matters—Action for Racial Equity” above).

Diverse Slates in Recruitment

In 2021, Citi expanded the use of diverse slates in its recruiting efforts to have at least two women or U.S. minorities interview for U.S.-based roles and at least two women interview for global hire roles at the AVP to MD levels. 

Since implementation, Citi has increased the share of diverse candidates on slates by 26% and more than doubled the total number of diverse slates between March and December 2021. Candidate slates were as follows:

•74.4% of roles included a diverse slate with at least two women globally and/or U.S. underrepresented minorities for U.S. hires; and 

•92.2% of roles included a diverse slate with at least one woman globally and/or U.S. underrepresented minority for U.S. hires compared to 86% in 2020.

In 2021, women representation in Citi’s full-time global campus programs surpassed its goal of 50%, increasing to 51% from 49% in 2020. In addition, Black and Hispanic/Latino representation within Citi’s full-time U.S. campus programs increased to 28% from 24% in 2020.

Workforce Development

Citi highly values a workplace environment where colleagues can bring their authentic selves to work and where diverse perspectives and ideas are embraced. Citi encourages career growth and development by offering broad and diverse opportunities to colleagues. Highlights of these opportunities include the following:

•Citi provides a range of internal development and rotational programs to colleagues at all levels, including various training programs and events to assist high-performing colleagues in building the skills needed to transition to manager and supervisory roles.

•Citi has a focus on internal talent development and aims to provide colleagues with career growth opportunities, with 37% of open positions filled internally in 2021. These opportunities are particularly important as Citi focuses on providing career paths for its internal talent base as part of its efforts to increase organic growth and promotions within the organization.

Moreover, in 2021, a diverse group of human resources and business stakeholders collaborated to provide input on the current state and target future state for promotions at Citi. Their analysis resulted in the identification of opportunities for improvement to create greater transparency and alignment of the promotion process across Citi’s businesses, functions and regions.

Wellness

During the past two years, the pandemic’s impact has been substantial on the mental and physical health of Citi colleagues and their families. As the Company transforms and the future of work evolves, colleague wellness is a central component of Citi’s focus. Coming out of the pandemic, Citi has announced three working models: colleagues will be designated as hybrid, resident or remote, based on job-specific requirements.

As colleagues pivoted to remote work during their respective country lockdowns, Citi’s health plans also expanded to keep colleagues at home and safe. In the U.S., Citi offered free virtual care visits, home delivery of prescriptions, enhanced bereavement leave and no-cost COVID testing.

In addition to providing access to COVID vaccinations, which included several onsite locations in Asia and the U.S., Citi organized drive-through flu vaccination programs in the U.S. for thousands of colleagues and their family members. All colleagues globally were provided time off for vaccinations and boosters and to recover from any side effects, if needed.

To support the ongoing health of its workforce, on October 28, 2021 Citi announced a COVID-19 vaccination policy requiring all U.S. colleagues and new hires to be fully vaccinated or receive an approved accommodation or state-permitted exemption, as a condition of employment. As of the January 14, 2022 deadline, over 99% of U.S. colleagues were in compliance with the vaccine policy. 

63

Citi also took actions to support the emotional well-being of its colleagues. Citi significantly enhanced free mental well-being programs in our largest region by doubling the number of free counseling sessions for colleagues and their family members and adding real-time text, video and message-based counseling. Citi also debuted a new online tool so that all colleagues around the globe could easily find their local Employee Assistance programs and resources. Citi also expanded live, town hall-style mental well-being programming to include targeted events with subject matter experts aimed at parents, caregivers and other at-risk groups. 

Citi’s wellness vision is not simply a reaction to its external environment. It has consistently been about nurturing colleagues and their families, however their families are grown. Citi continues to broaden gender affirmation medical coverage and incorporate it in its basic medical plan coverage around the world. Citi also enhanced its fertility coverage and support. In North America, Citi’s new Adoption and Surrogacy Assistance Program provides reimbursement to help with certain expenses in the adoption of a child or surrogacy parenting arrangement.

In early 2020, Citi expanded its Paid Parental Leave Policy to include Citi colleagues around the world. At a minimum, all Citi colleagues are eligible for 16 weeks of paid pregnancy leave or four weeks of paid parental bonding leave. Colleagues working in countries that require leave policies above the global minimum continue to maintain even longer periods of paid time off.

For information about Citi’s reliance on a highly qualified and motivated workforce, see “Risk Factors” above. For additional information about Citi’s human capital management initiatives and goals, see Citi’s upcoming 2022 proxy statement to be filed with the SEC in March 2022, as well as its 2020 ESG report available at www.citigroup.com. The 2020 ESG report and other information included elsewhere on Citi’s investor relations website are not incorporated by reference into, and do not form any part of, this 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

64

Managing Global Risk Table of Contents

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) For additional information regarding certain credit risk, market risk and other quantitative and qualitative information, refer to Citi’s Pillar 3 Basel III Advanced Approaches Disclosures, as required by the rules of the Federal Reserve Board, on Citi’s Investor Relations website.

65

MANAGING GLOBAL RISK

Overview

For Citi, effective risk management is of primary importance to its overall operations. Accordingly, Citi’s risk management process has been designed to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal risks it assumes in conducting its activities. Specifically, the activities that Citi engages in, and the risks those activities generate, must be consistent with Citi’s Mission and Value Proposition and the key principles that guide it, as well as Citi's risk appetite. As discussed above, Citi is continuing its efforts to comply with the FRB and OCC consent orders, relating principally to various aspects of risk management, compliance, data quality management and governance, and internal controls (see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” and “Risk Factors—Compliance Risks” above).

Risk management must be built on a foundation of ethical culture. Under Citi’s Mission and Value Proposition, which was developed by its senior leadership and distributed throughout the Company, Citi strives to serve its clients as a trusted partner by responsibly providing financial services that enable growth and economic progress while earning and maintaining the public’s trust by constantly adhering to the highest ethical standards. As such, Citi asks all colleagues to ensure that their decisions pass three tests: they are in Citi’s clients’ interests, create economic value and are always systemically responsible. In addition, Citi evaluates colleagues’ performance against behavioral expectations set out in Citi’s Leadership Principles, which were designed in part to effectuate Citi’s Mission and Value Proposition. Other culture-related efforts in connection with conduct risk, ethics and leadership, escalation and treating customers fairly help Citi to execute its Mission and Value Proposition.

Citi has established an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework to ensure that all of Citi’s risks are managed appropriately and consistently across Citi and at an aggregate, enterprise-wide level. The ERM Framework details the principles used to support effective enterprise-wide risk management across the end-to-end risk management lifecycle. The ERM Framework also provides clarity on the expected activities in relation to risk management of the Citigroup Board of Directors (the Board), Citi’s Executive Management Team (See “Risk Governance—Executive Management Team” below) and employees across the lines of defense. The underlying pillars of the framework encompass:

•Culture—the core principles and behaviors that underpin a strong culture of risk awareness, in line with Citi’s Mission and Value Proposition, and Leadership Principles;

•Governance—the committee structure and reporting arrangements that support the appropriate oversight of risk management activities at the Board and Executive Management Team levels;

•Risk Management—the end-to-end risk management cycle including the identification, measurement, monitoring, controlling and reporting of all risks including emerging, growing, idiosyncratic or otherwise material risks, and aggregated to an enterprise-wide level; and

•Enterprise Programs—the key risk management programs performed across the risk management lifecycle for all risk categories; these programs also outline the specific roles played by each of the lines of defense in these processes.

Each of these pillars is underpinned by Supporting Capabilities, which are the infrastructure, people, technology and data, and modelling and analytical capabilities that are in place to enable the execution of the ERM Framework.

Citi’s approach to risk management requires that its risk-taking be consistent with its risk appetite. Risk appetite is the aggregate type and level of risk Citi is willing to take in order to meet its strategic objectives and business plan. Citi’s Risk Appetite Framework sets boundaries for risk-taking and consists of a set of risk appetite statements as well as the governance processes through which the risk appetite is established, communicated, cascaded and monitored.

Citi’s risks are generally categorized and summarized as follows:

•Credit risk is the risk of loss resulting from the decline in credit quality (or downgrade risk) or failure of a borrower, counterparty, third party or issuer to honor its financial or contractual obligations.

•Liquidity risk is the risk that Citi will not be able to efficiently meet both expected and unexpected current and future cash flow and collateral needs without adversely affecting either daily operations or financial conditions of Citi. 

•Market risk (Trading and Non-Trading): Market risk of trading portfolios is the risk of loss arising from changes in the value of Citi’s assets and liabilities resulting from changes in market variables, such as equity and commodity prices or credit spreads. Market risk of non-trading portfolios is the risk to current or projected financial condition and resilience arising from movements in interest rates and resulting from repricing risk, basis risk, yield curve risk and options risk.

•Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events. It includes legal risk, which is the risk of loss (including litigation costs, settlements and regulatory fines) resulting from the failure of Citi to comply with laws, regulations, prudent ethical standards and contractual obligations in any aspect of Citi’s business, but excludes strategic and reputation risks (see below).

•Compliance risk is the risk to current or projected financial condition and resilience arising from violations of laws, rules or regulations, or from non-conformance with prescribed practices, internal policies and procedures or ethical standards. 

•Reputation risk is the risk to current or projected financial conditions and resilience arising from negative public opinion. 

•Strategic risk is the risk of a sustained impact (not episodic impact) to Citi’s core strategic objectives as measured by impacts on anticipated earnings, market capitalization, or capital, arising from the external factors 

66

affecting the Company’s operating environment; as well as the risks associated with defining the strategy and executing the strategy, which are identified, measured and managed as part of the Strategic Risk Framework at the Enterprise Level.

Citi uses a lines of defense model as a key component of its ERM Framework to manage its risks. The lines of defense model brings together risk-taking, risk oversight and risk assurance under one umbrella and provides an avenue for risk accountability of first line of defense, a construct for effective challenge by the second line of defense (Independent Risk Management and Independent Compliance Risk Management), and empowers independent risk assurance by the third line of defense (Internal Audit). In addition, Citi has enterprise support functions that support safety and soundness across Citi. Each of the lines of defense and enterprise support functions, along with the Board, are empowered to perform relevant risk management processes and responsibilities in order to manage Citi’s risks in a consistent and effective manner.

First Line of Defense: Front Line Units and Front Line Unit Activities

Citi’s first line of defense owns the risks inherent in or arising from their business and is responsible for identifying, measuring, monitoring, controlling and reporting those risks consistent with Citi’s strategy, Mission and Value Proposition, Leadership Principles and risk appetite. 

Front line units are responsible and held accountable for managing the risks associated with their activities within the boundaries set by independent risk management. They are also responsible for designing and implementing effective internal controls and maintaining processes for managing their risk profile, including through risk mitigation, so that it remains consistent with Citi’s established risk appetite.

Front line unit activities are considered part of the first line of defense and are subject to the oversight and challenge of independent risk management. 

The first line of defense is composed of Citi’s Business 

Management, Regional and Country Management, certain Corporate Functions (Enterprise Operations and Technology, Chief Administrative Office, Global Public Affairs, Office of the Citibank Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Finance), as well as other front line unit activities. Front line units may also include enterprise support units and activities—see “Enterprise Support Functions” below.

Second Line of Defense: Independent Risk Management Independent risk management units are independent of front line units. They are responsible for overseeing the risk-taking activities of the first line of defense and challenging the first line of defense in the execution of their risk management responsibilities. They are also responsible for independently identifying, measuring, monitoring, controlling and reporting aggregate risks and for setting standards for the management and oversight of risk. Independent risk management is comprised of Independent Risk Management (IRM) and Independent Compliance Risk Management (ICRM) and are led by chief risk executives (i.e., Chief Risk Officer (CRO) 

and Chief Compliance Officer (CCO)) who have unrestricted access to the Citigroup Board of Directors and its Risk Management Committee to facilitate the ability to execute their specific responsibilities pertaining to escalation to the Citigroup Board of Directors.

Independent Risk Management

The IRM organization sets risk and control standards for the first line of defense and actively manages and oversees aggregate credit, market (trading and non-trading), liquidity, strategic, operational and reputation risks across Citi, including risks that span categories, such as concentration risk, country risk and climate risk. 

IRM is organized to align to risk categories, legal entities/regions and Company-wide, cross-risk functions or processes (i.e., foundational areas). There are teams that report to an independent CRO for various risk categories and legal entities/regions. In addition, there are foundational teams that report to Foundational Risk Management heads. The Risk Category, Legal Entity/Regional CROs and Foundational Risk Management Heads report to the Citigroup CRO.

Independent Compliance Risk Management 

The ICRM organization actively oversees compliance risk across Citi, sets compliance risk and control standards for the first line of defense to manage compliance risk and promotes business conduct and activity that is consistent with Citi’s Mission and Value Proposition and the compliance risk appetite. Citi’s objective is to embed an enterprise-wide compliance risk management framework and culture that identifies, measures, monitors, controls and escalates compliance risk across Citi. 

ICRM is aligned by product line, function and geography to provide compliance risk management advice and credible challenge on day-to-day matters and strategic decision-making for key initiatives. ICRM also has program-level Enterprise Compliance units responsible for setting standards and establishing priorities for program-related compliance efforts. These Compliance Risk Management heads report directly to the CCO.

Third Line of Defense: Internal Audit

Internal Audit is independent of front line units and independent risk management units. The role of Internal Audit is to provide independent, objective, reliable, valued and timely assurance to the Citigroup Board of Directors, its Audit Committee, Citi senior management and regulators over the effectiveness of governance, risk management and controls that mitigate current and evolving risks and enhance the control culture within Citi. Internal Audit reports to a chief audit executive (i.e., Citi’s Chief Auditor) who has unrestricted access to the Board and the board of directors of certain subsidiaries or their respective audit committees to facilitate the ability to execute specific responsibilities pertaining to escalation of risks and issues. The Internal Audit function has designated Chief Auditors responsible for assessing the design and effectiveness of controls within the various business units, functions, geographies and legal entities in which Citi operates.

67

Enterprise Support Functions

Enterprise support functions engage in activities that support safety and soundness across Citi. These functions provide advisory services and/or design, implement, maintain and oversee Company-wide programs that support Citi in maintaining an effective control environment. 

Enterprise support functions are comprised of Human Resources, International Franchise Management, Legal (including Citi Security and Investigative Services). 

Enterprise support functions, units and activities are subject to the relevant Company-wide independent oversight processes specific to the risk category that they generate (e.g., operational risk, compliance risk, reputation risk).

Risk Governance

Citi’s ERM Framework encompasses risk management processes to address risks undertaken by Citi through identification, measurement, monitoring, controlling and reporting of all risks. The ERM Framework integrates these processes with appropriate governance to complement Citi’s commitment to maintaining strong and consistent risk management practices.

Board Oversight

The Board is responsible for oversight of risk management and holds the Executive Management Team accountable for implementing the ERM Framework and meeting strategic objectives within Citi’s risk appetite.

Executive Management Team

The Board delegates authority to an Executive Management Team for directing and overseeing day-to-day management of Citi. The Executive Management Team is led by the Citigroup CEO and provides oversight of group activities, both directly and through authority delegated to committees it has established to oversee the management of risk, to ensure continued alignment with Citi’s strategy and risk appetite.

Board and Executive Management Committees

The Board executes its responsibilities either directly or through its committees. The Board has delegated authorities to the following Board standing committees to help fulfill its oversight and risk management responsibilities:

•Risk Management Committee (RMC): assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibility with respect to (i) oversight of Citi’s risk management framework, including the significant policies and practices used in managing credit, market, liquidity, strategic, operational, compliance, reputation and certain other risks, including those pertaining to capital management, and (ii) performance oversight of the Global Risk Review—credit, capital and collateral review functions.

•Audit Committee: provides oversight of Citi’s financial reporting and internal control risk, as well as Internal Audit and Citi’s external independent accountants.

•Personnel and Compensation Committee: provides oversight of incentive compensation plans and risk related to compensation.

•Ethics, Conduct and Culture Committee: provides oversight of Citi’s Conduct Risk Management Program.

•Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee: provides oversight of reputational issues, Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) and sustainability matters, and legal and regulatory compliance risks as they relate to corporate governance matters.

In addition to the above, the Board has established the following ad hoc committee: 

•Transformation Oversight Committee: provides oversight of the actions of Citi’s management to develop and execute a transformation of Citi’s risk and control environment pursuant to the recent regulatory consent orders (for additional information see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” above).

The Executive Management Team has established five standing committees that cover the primary risks to which Citi (i.e., Group) is exposed. These consist of:

•Group Strategic Risk Committee (GSRC): provides governance oversight of Citi’s management actions to adequately identify, monitor, report, manage and escalate all material strategic risks facing Citi. 

•Citigroup Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO): responsible for governance over management’s Liquidity Risk and Market Risk (non-trading) management and for monitoring and influencing the balance sheet, investment securities and capital management activities of Citigroup.

•Group Risk Management Committee (GRMC): provides governance oversight of Credit Risk and Market Risk (trading) management in the Trading Book.

•Group Business Risk and Control Committee (GBRCC): provides governance oversight of Citi’s Compliance and Operational Risks. 

•Group Reputation Risk Committee (GRRC): provides governance oversight for Reputation Risk management across Citi.

In addition to the Executive Management committees listed above, the Board may establish ad-hoc committees in response to regulatory feedback or to manage additional activities where deemed necessary.

68

The figure below illustrates the reporting lines between the Board and Executive Management committees:

CREDIT RISK

Overview

Credit risk is the risk of loss resulting from the decline in credit quality of a client, customer or counterparty (or downgrade risk) or the failure of a borrower, counterparty, third party or issuer to honor its financial or contractual obligations. Credit risk arises in many of Citigroup’s business activities, including:

•consumer, commercial and corporate lending; 

•capital markets derivative transactions; 

•structured finance; and 

•securities financing transactions (repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities loaned and borrowed).

Credit risk also arises from clearing and settlement activities, when Citi transfers an asset in advance of receiving its counter-value or advances funds to settle a transaction on behalf of a client. Concentration risk, within credit risk, is the risk associated with having credit exposure concentrated within a specific client, industry, region or other category.

Credit risk is one of the most significant risks Citi faces as an institution. For additional information, see “Risk Factors—Credit Risk” above. As a result, Citi has an established framework in place for managing credit risk across all businesses that includes a defined risk appetite, credit limits and credit policies. Citi’s credit risk management also includes processes and policies with respect to problem recognition, including “watch lists,” portfolio reviews, stress tests, updated risk ratings and classification triggers. 

With respect to Citi’s clearing and settlement activities, intraday client usage of clearing lines is monitored against limits, as well as against usage patterns with settlement activity monitored daily and intraday for select products. To the extent that a problem develops, Citi typically moves the client to a secured (collateralized) operating model. Generally, Citi’s intraday clearing and settlement lines are uncommitted and cancelable at any time.

To manage concentration of risk within credit risk, Citi has in place a framework consisting of industry limits, an 

idiosyncratic framework consisting of single name concentrations for each business and across Citigroup and a specialized framework consisting of product limits.

Credit exposures are generally reported in notional terms for accrual loans, reflecting the value at which the loans as well as other off-balance sheet commitments are carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Credit exposure arising from capital markets activities is generally expressed as the current mark-to-market, net of margin, reflecting the net value owed to Citi by a given counterparty. 

The credit risk associated with these credit exposures is a function of the idiosyncratic creditworthiness of the obligor, as well as the terms and conditions of the specific obligation. Citi assesses the credit risk associated with its credit exposures on a regular basis through its Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL) process (see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Allowance for Credit Losses” below and Notes 1 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), as well as through regular stress testing at the company, business, geography and product levels. These stress-testing processes typically estimate potential incremental credit costs that would occur as a result of either downgrades in the credit quality or defaults of the obligors or counterparties. For additional information on Citi’s credit risk management, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

69

CONSUMER CREDIT

Citi fulfills a broad spectrum of customers’ financial needs with activities spanning retail banking, wealth management, credit card, personal loan, mortgage and small business banking through North America GCB. During 2021, Citi also provided such activities in 18 countries in Latin America GCB and Asia GCB (for information on Citi’s consumer market exits in Latin America GCB and Asia GCB, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Planned Revision to Reporting Structure” above). The retail banking products include consumer mortgages, home equity, personal and small business loans and lines of credit and similar related products building a generally prime portfolio through well-defined lending parameters. Citi uses its risk appetite framework to define its lending parameters. 

Consumer Credit Portfolio

The following table shows Citi’s quarterly end-of-period consumer loans:(1)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)End-of-period loans include interest and fees on credit cards.

(2)As a result of Citi’s entry into agreements to sell its consumer banking businesses in Australia and the Philippines, the businesses were reclassified as held-for-sale and their assets and liabilities were included in Other assets and Other liabilities, respectively, on Citi’s Consolidated Balance Sheet and excluded from loans and related credit measures, of GCB and Asia GCB beginning in the third quarter of 2021 for Australia and the fourth quarter of 2021 for the Philippines. For additional information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(3)Asia includes loans and leases in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

(4)Primarily consists of legacy assets, principally North America consumer mortgages.

For information on changes to Citi’s consumer loans, see “Liquidity Risk—Loans” below.

70

Overall Consumer Credit Trends

Global Consumer Banking

As shown in the chart above, GCB’s net credit loss rate decreased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year for the fourth quarter of 2021, primarily reflecting the continued impact of government stimulus, unemployment benefits and consumer relief programs in North America GCB, and a decline following the peak charge-offs in Asia GCB and Latin America GCB in recent quarters. 

GCB’s 90+ days past due delinquency rate remained unchanged quarter-over-quarter. The 90+days past due delinquency rate decreased year-over-year, primarily due to the continued impacts of government stimulus, unemployment benefits and consumer relief programs in North America GCB, as well as lower delinquencies in Asia GCB and Latin America GCB, following the charge-off of peak delinquencies in recent quarters.

North America GCB

North America GCB provides mortgage, home equity, small business and personal loans through Citi’s retail banking network and card products through branded cards and retail services businesses. The retail bank is concentrated in six major metropolitan cities in the U.S. (for additional information on the U.S. retail bank, see “North America GCB” above).

As of December 31, 2021, approximately 74% of North America GCB consumer loans consisted of branded and retail services cards, which generally drives the overall credit performance of North America GCB (for additional information on North America GCB’s cards portfolios, including delinquency and net credit loss rates, see “Credit Card Trends” below).

As shown in the chart above, the net credit loss rate in North America GCB for the fourth quarter of 2021 decreased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year, primarily reflecting the continued impact of high payment rates in cards, driven by government stimulus. 

Year-over-year, the payment rates were also impacted by unemployment benefits and consumer relief programs.

The 90+ days past due delinquency rate in North America GCB increased modestly quarter-over-quarter, primarily due to seasonality in cards, while the 90+ days past due delinquency rate decreased year-over-year, primarily reflecting the continued impact of high payment rates in cards, driven by government stimulus.

Latin America GCB

Latin America GCB operates in Mexico through Citibanamex and provides credit cards, consumer mortgages and small business and personal loans. Latin America GCB serves a more mass-market segment in Mexico and focuses on developing multiproduct relationships with customers.

As shown in the chart above, the net credit loss rate in Latin America GCB for the fourth quarter of 2021 decreased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year. The impact of charge-offs of delinquent loans in prior quarters resulted in lower delinquencies that led to lower net credit losses in the current quarter. 

The 90+ days past due delinquency rate decreased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year. The impact of charge-offs of delinquent loans in prior quarters and higher payment rates resulted in a lower 90+ days past due delinquency rate in the current quarter.

Asia(1) GCB 

(1) Asia includes GCB activities in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

71

During 2021, Asia GCB operated in 17 countries and jurisdictions in Asia and EMEA and provided credit cards, consumer mortgages and small business and personal loans.

As shown in the chart above, the fourth quarter of 2021 net credit loss rate in Asia GCB decreased quarter-over-quarter, driven by the charge-off of peak delinquencies in recent quarters. Year-over-year, the net credit loss rate decreased, as elevated losses during the prior year returned to pre-pandemic levels. The decrease was also driven by the reclassification of approximately $10 billion of loans to held-for-sale as a result of Citi’s entry into agreements to sell its consumer banking businesses in Australia and the Philippines (Asia HFS reclass).

The 90+ days past due delinquency rate decreased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year, driven by the charge-off of peak delinquencies in recent quarters, as elevated losses returned to pre-pandemic levels, as well as the impact of the Asia HFS reclass.

The performance of Asia GCB’s portfolios continues to reflect the strong credit profiles in the region’s target customer segments. Regulatory changes in many markets in Asia over the past few years have also resulted in improved credit quality.

For additional information on cost of credit, loan delinquency and other information for Citi’s consumer loan portfolios, see each respective business’s results of operations above and Notes 13 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Credit Card Trends

Global Cards

North America Branded Cards

North America GCB’s branded cards portfolio includes proprietary and co-branded cards. 

As shown in the chart above, the net credit loss rate in North America branded cards for the fourth quarter of 2021 decreased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year, primarily reflecting the continued impact of high payment rates, driven by government stimulus. Year-over-year, the payment rates were also impacted by unemployment benefits and consumer relief programs.

The 90+ days past due delinquency rate remained unchanged quarter-over-quarter and decreased year-over-year, primarily reflecting the continued impact of high payment rates, driven by government stimulus. Year-over-year, the payment rates were also impacted by unemployment benefits and consumer relief programs.

North America Retail Services

Retail services partners directly with more than 20 retailers and dealers to offer private label and co-branded cards. Retail services’ target market focuses on select industry segments such as home improvement, specialty retail, consumer electronics and fuel.

Retail services continually evaluates opportunities to add partners within target industries that have strong loyalty, lending or payment programs and growth potential.

As shown in the chart above, the net credit loss rate in retail services for the fourth quarter of 2021 decreased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year, primarily reflecting the continued impact of high payment rates, driven by government stimulus. Year-over-year, the payment rates were also impacted by unemployment benefits and consumer relief programs.

The 90+ days past due delinquency rate increased quarter-over-quarter due to seasonality, and decreased year-over-year, primarily reflecting the continued impact of high payment rates, driven by government stimulus. Year-over-year, the payment rates were also impacted by unemployment benefits and consumer relief programs.

72

Latin America Branded Cards

Latin America GCB issues proprietary and co-branded cards. 

As shown in the chart above, the fourth quarter of 2021 net credit loss rate in Latin America branded cards decreased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year. The impact of charge-offs of delinquent loans in prior quarters resulted in lower delinquencies that led to lower net credit losses in the current quarter. 

The 90+ days past due delinquency rate decreased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year. The impact of charge-offs of delinquent loans in prior quarters and higher payment rates resulted in a lower 90+ days past due delinquency rate.

Asia Branded Cards(1)

(1)Asia includes loans and leases in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

As shown in the chart above, the net credit loss rate in Asia branded cards for the fourth quarter of 2021 decreased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year, driven by the charge-off of peak delinquencies in recent quarters, as elevated losses returned to pre-pandemic levels, as well as the impact of the Asia HFS reclass.

The 90+ days past due delinquency rate decreased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year, driven by the charge-off of peak delinquencies in recent quarters, as elevated losses returned to pre-pandemic levels, as well as the Asia HFS reclass.

For additional information on cost of credit, delinquency and other information for Citi’s cards portfolios, see each respective business’s results of operations above and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

North America Cards FICO Distribution

The following tables show the current FICO score distributions for Citi’s North America cards portfolios based on end-of-period receivables. FICO scores are updated monthly for a substantial share of the portfolio and quarterly for the remaining portfolio.

Branded Cards

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Retail Services

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The FICO bands in the tables are consistent with general industry peer presentations. 

The FICO distribution of both cards portfolios remained largely stable compared to the prior quarter and improved compared to the prior year, demonstrating strong underlying credit quality and a benefit from the impacts of government stimulus, unemployment benefits and customer relief programs, as well as lower credit utilization. For additional information on FICO scores, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

73

Additional Consumer Credit Details

Consumer Loan Delinquencies Amounts and Ratios

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)End-of-period (EOP) loans include interest and fees on credit cards.

(2)The ratios of 90+ days past due and 30–89 days past due are calculated based on EOP loans, net of unearned income.

(3)The 90+ days past due balances for North America—branded and North America—retail services are generally still accruing interest. Citigroup’s policy is generally to accrue interest on credit card loans until 180 days past due, unless notification of bankruptcy filing has been received earlier.

(4)The 90+ days past due and 30–89 days past due and related ratios for North America GCB exclude loans guaranteed by U.S. government-sponsored agencies since the potential loss predominantly resides with the U.S. government-sponsored agencies. The amounts excluded for loans 90+ days past due and (EOP loans) were $185 million ($1.1 billion), $171 million ($0.7 billion) and $135 million ($0.5 billion) at December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The amounts excluded for loans 30–89 days past due (the 30–89 days past due EOP loans have the same adjustments as the 90+ days past due EOP loans) were $74 million, $98 million and $72 million at December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

(5)Asia includes delinquencies and loans in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

(6)During 2021, Citi’s Australia and the Philippines consumer banking businesses were reclassified as HFS, due to Citi’s entry into agreements to sell the businesses. Accordingly, Australia and the Philippines consumer loans are recorded in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and hence the loans and related delinquencies and ratios are not included in this table. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

(7)The 90+ days past due and 30–89 days past due and related ratios exclude U.S. mortgage loans that are primarily related to U.S. mortgages guaranteed by U.S. government-sponsored agencies since the potential loss predominantly resides with the U.S. agencies. The amounts excluded for 90+ days past due EOP loans were $138 million ($0.4 billion), $183 million ($0.5 billion) and $172 million ($0.4 billion) at December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The amounts excluded for loans 30–89 days past due (the 30–89 days past due EOP loans have the same adjustments as the 90+ days past due EOP loans) were $35 million, $73 million and $55 million at December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

74

Consumer Loan Net Credit Losses and Ratios

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Average loans include interest and fees on credit cards.

(2)The ratios of net credit losses are calculated based on average loans, net of unearned income.

(3)Asia includes NCLs and average loans in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

(4)As a result of Citi’s entry into agreements to sell its consumer banking businesses in Australia and the Philippines during 2021, these businesses were reclassified as HFS beginning in 2021. As a result of HFS accounting treatment, approximately $6 million of net credit losses (NCLs) was recorded as a reduction in revenue (Other revenue) in 2021. Accordingly, these NCLs are not included in this table, as well as Loans HFS that are recorded in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

75

Loan Maturities and Fixed/Variable Pricing of Consumer Loans

Loan Maturities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fixed/Variable Pricing

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

76

CORPORATE CREDIT

Consistent with its overall strategy, Citi’s corporate clients are typically corporations that value the depth and breadth of Citi’s global network. Citi aims to establish relationships with these clients that, consistent with client needs, encompass multiple products, including cash management and trade services, foreign exchange, lending, capital markets and M&A advisory. During 2021, Citi’s corporate credit exposures also included exposures in the private bank, excluding certain loans managed on a delinquency basis. For information on Citi’s planned revision to its reporting structure effective for the first quarter of 2022, including the reporting of the private bank as part of a new reporting segment, Personal Banking and Wealth Management, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Planned Revision to Reporting Structure” above.

Corporate Credit Portfolio

The following table details Citi’s corporate credit portfolio within ICG (excluding certain loans in the private bank, which are managed on a delinquency basis, as well as loans carried at fair value and held-for-sale), and before consideration of collateral or hedges, by remaining tenor for the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes drawn loans, overdrafts, bankers’ acceptances and leases. 

(2) Includes unused commitments to lend, letters of credit and financial guarantees.

Portfolio Mix—Geography and Counterparty

Citi’s corporate credit portfolio is diverse across geography and counterparty. The following table shows the percentage of this portfolio by region (excluding the delinquency-managed private bank portfolio) based on Citi’s internal management geography:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The maintenance of accurate and consistent risk ratings across the corporate credit portfolio facilitates the comparison of credit exposure across all lines of business, geographic regions and products. Counterparty risk ratings reflect an estimated probability of default for a counterparty and are derived by leveraging validated statistical models, scorecard models and external agency ratings (under defined circumstances), in combination with consideration of factors specific to the obligor or market, such as management experience, competitive position, regulatory environment and 

commodity prices. Facility risk ratings are assigned that reflect the probability of default of the obligor and factors that affect the loss given default of the facility, such as support or collateral. Internal obligor ratings that generally correspond to BBB and above are considered investment grade, while those below are considered non-investment grade.

77

The following table presents the corporate credit portfolio (excluding the delinquency-managed private bank portfolio) by facility risk rating as a percentage of the total corporate credit portfolio:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Total exposure includes direct outstandings and unfunded lending commitments. 

In addition to the obligor and facility risk ratings assigned to all exposures, Citi may classify exposures in the corporate credit portfolio. These classifications are consistent with Citi’s interpretation of the U.S. banking regulators’ definition of criticized exposures, which may categorize exposures as special mention, substandard, doubtful or loss.

Risk ratings and classifications are reviewed regularly, and adjusted as appropriate. The credit review process incorporates quantitative and qualitative factors, including financial and non-financial disclosures or metrics, idiosyncratic events or changes to the competitive, regulatory or macroeconomic environment. This includes but is not limited to exposures in those sectors significantly impacted by the pandemic (including consumer retail, commercial real estate and transportation). 

Citi believes the corporate credit portfolio to be appropriately rated and classified as of December 31, 2021. Since the onset of the pandemic, Citi has taken action to adjust internal ratings and classifications of exposures as both the macroeconomic environment and obligor-specific factors have changed, particularly where additional stress has been seen. 

As obligor risk ratings are downgraded, the probability of default increases. Downgrades of obligor risk ratings tend to result in a higher provision for credit losses. In addition, downgrades may result in the purchase of additional credit derivatives or other risk mitigants to hedge the incremental credit risk, or may result in Citi’s seeking to reduce exposure to an obligor or an industry sector. Citi will continue to review exposures to ensure that the appropriate probability of default is incorporated into all risk assessments.

For additional information on Citi’s corporate credit portfolio, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Portfolio Mix—Industry

Citi’s corporate credit portfolio is diversified by industry. The following table details the allocation of Citi’s total corporate credit portfolio by industry (excluding the delinquency-managed private bank portfolio):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

78

The following table details Citi’s corporate credit portfolio by industry as of December 31, 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Excludes $46.5 billion and $1.7 billion of funded and unfunded exposure at December 31, 2021, respectively, primarily related to the delinquency-managed private bank portfolio. Funded balances also excludes loans carried at fair value of $6.1 billion at December 31, 2021. 

(2) Includes non-accrual loan exposures and criticized unfunded exposures.

(3) Excludes $36 million of past due loans primarily related to the delinquency-managed private bank portfolio.

(4) Net credit losses (recoveries) are for the year ended December 31, 2021 and exclude delinquency-managed private bank net credit losses of $2 million.

(5) Represents the amount of purchased credit protection in the form of derivatives to economically hedge funded and unfunded exposures. Of the $39.6 billion of purchased credit protection, $36.0 billion represents the total notional amount of purchased credit derivatives on individual reference entities. The remaining $3.6 billion represents the first loss tranche of portfolios of purchased credit derivatives with a total notional of $28.4 billion, where the protection seller absorbs the first loss on the referenced loan portfolios.

(6) Autos total credit exposure includes securitization financing facilities secured by auto loans and leases, extended mainly to the finance company subsidiaries of global auto manufacturers, bank subsidiaries and independent auto finance companies, of approximately $17.9 billion ($6.5 billion in funded, with more than 99% rated investment grade) as of December 31, 2021.

(7) In addition to this exposure, Citi has energy-related exposure within the public sector (e.g., energy-related state-owned entities) and the transportation and industrials sector (e.g., off-shore drilling entities) included in the table above. As of December 31, 2021, Citi’s total exposure to these energy-related entities was approximately $5.1 billion, of which approximately $2.6 billion consisted of direct outstanding funded loans.

79

The following table details Citi’s corporate credit portfolio by industry as of December 31, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Excludes $42.0 billion and $4.4 billion of funded and unfunded exposure at December 31, 2020, respectively, primarily related to the delinquency-managed private bank portfolio. Funded balances also excludes loans carried at fair value of $6.8 billion at December 31, 2020. 

(2) Includes non-accrual loan exposures and criticized unfunded exposures.

(3) Excludes $162 million of past due loans primarily related to the delinquency-managed private bank portfolio.

(4) Net credit losses (recoveries) are for the year ended December 31, 2020 and exclude delinquency-managed private bank credit losses of $10 million.

(5) Represents the amount of purchased credit protection in the form of derivatives to economically hedge funded and unfunded exposures. Of the $38.8 billion of purchased credit protection, $36.8 billion represents the total notional amount of purchased credit derivatives on individual reference entities. The remaining $2.0 billion represents the first loss tranche of portfolios of purchased credit derivatives with a total notional of $16.1 billion, where the protection seller absorbs the first loss on the referenced loan portfolios.

(6) Autos total credit exposure includes securitization financing facilities secured by auto loans and leases, extended mainly to the finance company subsidiaries of global auto manufacturers, bank subsidiaries and independent auto finance companies, of approximately $20.2 billion ($10.3 billion in funded, with more than 99% rated investment grade) at December 31, 2020.

(7) In addition to this exposure, Citi has energy-related exposure within the public sector (e.g., energy-related state-owned entities) and the transportation and industrials sector (e.g., off-shore drilling entities) included in the table above. As of December 31, 2020, Citi’s total exposure to these energy-related entities was approximately $7.0 billion, of which approximately $3.8 billion consisted of direct outstanding funded loans. 

80

Exposure to Commercial Real Estate

As of December 31, 2021, ICG’s total corporate credit exposure to commercial real estate (CRE) was $66 billion, with $44 billion consisting of direct outstanding funded loans (mainly included in the real estate and private bank categories in the above table), or 7% of Citi’s total outstanding loans. In addition, as of December 31, 2021, more than 70% of ICG’s total corporate CRE exposure was to borrowers in the U.S. Also as of December 31, 2021, approximately 77% of ICG’s total corporate CRE exposure was rated investment grade.

As of December 31, 2021, the ACLL was 0.9% of funded CRE exposure, including 2.4% of funded non-investment-grade exposure.

Of the total CRE exposure:

•$20 billion ($12 billion of direct outstanding funded loans) relates to Community Reinvestment Act-related lending provided pursuant to Citi’s regulatory requirements to meet the credit needs of borrowers in low and moderate income neighborhoods.

•$20 billion ($16 billion of direct outstanding funded loans) relates to exposure secured by mortgages on underlying properties or in well-rated securitization exposures.

•$15 billion ($5 billion of direct outstanding funded loans) relates to unsecured loans to large REITs, with nearly 74% of the exposure rated investment grade.

•$11 billion ($11 billion of direct outstanding funded loans) relates to CRE exposure in the private bank, of which 100% is secured by mortgages. In addition, 48% of the exposure is also full recourse to the client. As of December 31, 2021, 82% of the exposure was rated investment grade.

Credit Risk Mitigation

As part of its overall risk management activities, Citi uses credit derivatives and other risk mitigants to hedge portions of the credit risk in its corporate credit portfolio, in addition to outright asset sales. Citi may enter into partial-term hedges as well as full-term hedges. In advance of the expiration of partial-term hedges, Citi will determine, among other factors, the economic feasibility of hedging the remaining life of the instrument. The results of the mark-to-market and any realized gains or losses on credit derivatives are reflected primarily in Principal transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

At December 31, 2021, September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, ICG (excluding the delinquency-managed private bank portfolio) had economic hedges on the corporate credit portfolio of $39.6 billion, $38.1 billion and $38.8 billion, respectively. Citi’s expected credit loss model used in the calculation of its ACL does not include the favorable impact of credit derivatives and other mitigants that are marked to market. In addition, the reported amounts of direct outstandings and unfunded lending commitments in the tables above do not reflect the impact of these hedging transactions. The credit protection was economically hedging underlying ICG (excluding the delinquency-managed private bank portfolio) corporate credit portfolio exposures with the following risk rating distribution:

Rating of Hedged Exposure

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

81

Loan Maturities and Fixed/Variable Pricing of Corporate Loans

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) North America includes the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. Mexico is included in offices outside North America. The classification between offices in North America and outside North America is based on the domicile of the booking unit. The difference between the domicile of the booking unit and the domicile of the managing unit is not material.

(2) Loans secured primarily by real estate.

(3) Corporate loans are net of unearned income of ($799) million. Unearned income on corporate loans primarily represents interest received in advance, but not yet earned, on loans originated on a discounted basis.

(4) Based on contractual terms. Repricing characteristics may effectively be modified from time to time using derivative contracts. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

82

ADDITIONAL CONSUMER AND CORPORATE CREDIT DETAILS

Loans Outstanding

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)North America includes the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. Mexico is included in offices outside North America. The classification of corporate loans between offices in North America and outside North America is based on the domicile of the booking unit. The difference between the domicile of the booking unit and the domicile of the managing unit is not material.

(2)Loans secured primarily by real estate.

(3)Consumer loans are net of unearned income of $659 million, $749 million, $783 million, $742 million and $768 million at December 31, 2021, 2020, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Unearned income on consumer loans primarily represents unamortized origination fees and costs, premiums and discounts. 

(4)Corporate loans include private bank loans and are net of unearned income of $(799) million, $(844) million, $(814) million, $(855) million and $(794) million at December 31, 2021, 2020, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Unearned income on corporate loans primarily represents interest received in advance, but not yet earned, on loans originated on a discounted basis.

(5)Because loans carried at fair value do not have an ACLL, they are excluded from the ACLL ratio calculation.

83

Details of Credit Loss Experience

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

84

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)On January 1, 2020, Citi adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 326, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (CECL). The ASC introduces a new credit loss methodology requiring earlier recognition of credit losses while also providing additional disclosure about credit risk. On January 1, 2020, Citi recorded a $4.1 billion, or an approximate 29%, pretax increase in the Allowance for credit losses, along with a $3.1 billion after-tax decrease in Retained earnings and a deferred tax asset increase of $1.0 billion. This transition impact reflects (i) a $4.9 billion build to the consumer ACL due to longer estimated tenors than under the incurred loss methodology under prior U.S. GAAP, net of recoveries; and (ii) a $0.8 billion decrease to the corporate ACL due to shorter remaining tenors, incorporation of recoveries and use of more specific historical loss data based on an increase in portfolio segmentation across industries and geographies. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the impact of Citi’s adoption of CECL.

(2)Citi had a change in accounting related to its variable post-charge-off third-party collection costs that was recorded as an adjustment to its January 1, 2020 opening allowance for credit losses on loans of $443 million. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(3)Includes all adjustments to the allowance for credit losses, such as changes in the allowance from acquisitions, dispositions, securitizations, FX translation, purchase accounting adjustments, etc.

(4)2021 includes an approximate $280 million reclass related to Citi’s agreement to sell its consumer banking business in Australia and an approximate $90 million reclass related to Citi’s agreement to sell its consumer banking business in the Philippines. Those ACLL were reclassified to Other assets during 2021. 2021 also includes a decrease of approximately $134 million related to FX translation.

(5)2020 includes reductions of approximately $4 million related to the transfer to HFS of various real estate loan portfolios. In addition, 2020 includes an increase of approximately $97 million related to FX translation.

(6)2019 includes reductions of approximately $42 million related to the sale or transfer to HFS of various loan portfolios. In addition, 2019 includes a reduction of approximately $60 million related to FX translation.

(7)2018 includes reductions of approximately $201 million related to the sale or transfer to HFS of various loan portfolios, which include approximately $106 million related to the transfer of various real estate loan portfolios to HFS. In addition, 2017 includes an increase of approximately $115 million related to FX translation.

(8)2017 includes reductions of approximately $261 million related to the sale or transfer to HFS of various loan portfolios, which include approximately $106 million related to the transfer of various real estate loan portfolios to HFS. In addition, 2017 includes an increase of approximately $115 million related to FX translation.

(9)December 31, 2021, 2020, 2019, 2018 and 2017 exclude $6.1 billion, $6.9 billion, $4.1 billion, $3.2 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively, of loans which are carried at fair value.

(10)2020 corporate ACLUC includes a non-provision transfer of $68 million, representing reserves on performance guarantees. The reserves on these contracts were reclassified out of the ACL on unfunded lending commitments and into other liabilities.

(11)Represents additional credit reserves recorded as Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

(12)Beginning in 2020, under CECL, the ACLL represents management’s estimate of expected credit losses in the portfolio and troubled debt restructurings. See “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements below. Attribution of the ACLL is made for analytical purposes only and the entire ACLL is available to absorb credit losses in the overall portfolio. Prior to 2020, the ACLL represented management’s estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio, as well as probable losses related to large individually evaluated impaired loans and TDRs. See “Superseded Accounting Principles” in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

85

Allowance for Credit Losses on Loans (ACLL)

The following tables detail information on Citi’s ACLL, loans and coverage ratios: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Loans carried at fair value do not have an ACLL and are excluded from the ACLL ratio calculation.

(2)Includes both branded cards and retail services. The $10.8 billion of loan loss reserves represented approximately 63 months of coincident net credit loss coverage. As of December 31, 2021, North America branded cards ACLL as a percentage of EOP loans was 7.1% and North America retail services ACLL as a percentage of EOP loans was 10.0%.

(3)Of the $0.2 billion, approximately $0.1 billion and $0.1 billion determined in accordance with ASC 450-20 and ASC 310-10-35 (troubled debt restructurings), respectively. Of the $48.9 billion in loans, approximately $47.5 billion and $1.4 billion of the loans were evaluated in accordance with ASC 450-20 and ASC 310-10-35 (troubled debt restructurings), respectively. For additional information, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(4)Includes mortgages and other retail loans.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Loans carried at fair value do not have an ACLL and are excluded from the ACLL ratio calculation.

(2)Includes both branded cards and retail services. The $14.7 billion of loan loss reserves represented approximately 53 months of coincident net credit loss coverage. As of December 31, 2020, North America branded cards ACLL as a percentage of EOP loans was 10.0% and North America retail services ACLL as a percentage of EOP loans was 13.6%.

(3)Of the $0.7 billion, nearly all was allocated to North America mortgages in Corporate/Other, including approximately $0.5 billion and $0.2 billion determined in accordance with ASC 450-20 and ASC 310-10-35 (troubled debt restructurings), respectively. Of the $54.9 billion in loans, approximately $53.0 billion and $1.9 billion of the loans were evaluated in accordance with ASC 450-20 and ASC 310-10-35 (troubled debt restructurings), respectively. For additional information, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(4)Includes mortgages and other retail loans.

86

The following table details Citi’s corporate credit allowance for credit losses on loans (ACLL) by industry exposure as of December 31, 2021: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Funded exposure excludes loans carried at fair value of $6.1 billion that are not subject to ACLL under the CECL standard.

(2) As of December 31, 2021, the ACLL shown above reflects coverage of 0.4% of funded investment-grade exposure and 2.3% of funded non-investment-grade exposure.

(3) Primarily associated with delinquency-managed private bank loans including non-rated mortgage and real estate loans to private banking clients at December 31, 2021.

The following table details Citi’s corporate credit allowance for credit losses on loans (ACLL) by industry exposure as of December 31, 2020: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Funded exposure excludes loans carried at fair value of $6.8 billion that are not subject to ACLL under the CECL standard.

(2) As of December 31, 2021, the ACLL shown above reflects coverage of 0.5% of funded investment-grade exposure and 4.4% of funded non-investment-grade exposure.

(3) Primarily associated with delinquency-managed private bank loans including non-rated mortgage and real estate loans to private banking clients at December 31, 2020.

87

Non-Accrual Loans and Assets and Renegotiated Loans

There is a certain amount of overlap among non-accrual loans and assets and renegotiated loans. The following summary provides a general description of each category.

Non-Accrual Loans and Assets:

•Corporate and consumer (including commercial banking) non-accrual status is based on the determination that payment of interest or principal is doubtful.

•A corporate loan may be classified as non-accrual and still be performing under the terms of the loan structure. Non-accrual loans may still be current on interest payments. Citi’s corporate non-accrual loans were $1.9 billion, $2.4 billion and $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2021, September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively. Of these, approximately 54%, 56% and 59% were performing at December 31, 2021, September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively.

•Consumer non-accrual status is generally based on aging, i.e., the borrower has fallen behind on payments.

•Consumer mortgage loans, other than Federal Housing Administration (FHA) insured loans, are classified as non-accrual within 60 days of notification that the borrower has filed for bankruptcy. In addition, home equity loans are classified as non-accrual if the related residential first mortgage loan is 90 days or more past due.

•North America branded cards and retail services are not included because, under industry standards, credit card loans accrue interest until such loans are charged off, which typically occurs at 180 days of contractual delinquency.

Renegotiated Loans:

•Includes both corporate and consumer loans whose terms have been modified in a troubled debt restructuring (TDR).

•Includes both accrual and non-accrual TDRs.

88

Non-Accrual Loans

The table below summarizes Citigroup’s non-accrual loans as of the periods indicated. Non-accrual loans may still be current on interest payments. In situations where Citi reasonably expects that only a portion of the principal owed will ultimately be collected, all payments received are reflected as a reduction of principal and not as interest income. For all other non-accrual loans, cash interest receipts are generally recorded as revenue.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)For years prior to 2020, excludes purchased credit-deteriorated loans, as they are generally accruing interest. The carrying value of these loans was $128 million at December 31, 2019, $128 million at December 31, 2018 and $167 million at December 31, 2017.

(2) Asia GCB includes balances in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

The changes in Citigroup’s non-accrual loans were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

89

The table below summarizes Citigroup’s other real estate owned (OREO) assets. OREO is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet within Other assets. This represents the carrying value of all real estate property acquired by foreclosure or other legal proceedings when Citi has taken possession of the collateral:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The ACLL includes the allowance for Citi’s credit card portfolios and purchased distressed loans, while the non-accrual loans exclude credit card balances (with the exception of certain international portfolios) and, prior to 2020, include purchased credit-deteriorated loans as these continue to accrue interest until charge-off.

90

Renegotiated Loans

The following table presents Citi’s loans modified in TDRs:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes $321 million and $415 million of non-accrual loans included in the non-accrual loans table above at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The remaining loans were accruing interest.

(2)In addition to modifications reflected as TDRs at December 31, 2021 and 2020, Citi also modified none and $47 million, respectively, of commercial loans risk rated “Substandard Non-Performing” or worse (asset category defined by banking regulators) in offices outside the U.S. These modifications were not considered TDRs because the modifications did not involve a concession or because the modifications qualified for exemptions from TDR accounting provided by the CARES Act or the interagency guidance.

(3)Includes $627 million and $873 million of non-accrual loans included in the non-accrual loans table above at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The remaining loans were accruing interest.

Forgone Interest Revenue on Loans(1) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Relates to corporate non-accrual loans, renegotiated loans and consumer loans on which accrual of interest has been suspended. 

(2) Interest revenue in offices outside the U.S. may reflect prevailing local interest rates, including the effects of inflation and monetary correction in certain countries.

91

LIQUIDITY RISK

Overview

Adequate and diverse sources of funding and liquidity are essential to Citi’s businesses. Funding and liquidity risks arise from several factors, many of which are mostly or entirely outside Citi’s control, such as disruptions in the financial markets, changes in key funding sources, credit spreads, changes in Citi’s credit ratings and macroeconomic, geopolitical and other conditions. For additional information, see “Risk Factors—Liquidity Risks” above.

Citi’s funding and liquidity management objectives are aimed at (i) funding its existing asset base, (ii) growing its core businesses, (iii) maintaining sufficient liquidity, structured appropriately, so that Citi can operate under a variety of adverse circumstances, including potential Company-specific and/or market liquidity events in varying durations and severity, and (iv) satisfying regulatory requirements, including, among other things, those related to resolution planning (for additional information, see “Resolution Plan” and “Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC)” below). Citigroup’s primary liquidity objectives are established by entity, and in aggregate, across two major categories:

•Citibank (including Citibank Europe plc, Citibank Singapore Ltd. and Citibank (Hong Kong) Ltd.); and

•Citi’s non-bank and other entities, including the parent holding company (Citigroup Inc.), Citi’s primary intermediate holding company (Citicorp LLC), Citi’s broker-dealer subsidiaries (including Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Limited. and Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc.) and other bank and non-bank subsidiaries that are consolidated into Citigroup (including Citibanamex).

At an aggregate Citigroup level, Citi’s goal is to maintain sufficient funding in amount and tenor to fully fund customer assets and to provide an appropriate amount of cash and high-quality liquid assets (as discussed below), even in times of stress, in order to meet its payment obligations as they come due. The liquidity risk management framework provides that in addition to the aggregate requirements, certain entities be self-sufficient or net providers of liquidity, including in conditions established under their designated stress tests.

Citi’s primary funding sources include (i) corporate and consumer deposits via Citi’s bank subsidiaries, including Citibank, N.A. (Citibank), (ii) long-term debt (primarily senior and subordinated debt) mainly issued by Citigroup Inc., as the parent, and Citibank, and (iii) stockholders’ equity. These sources may be supplemented by short-term borrowings, primarily in the form of secured funding transactions.

As referenced above, Citi’s funding and liquidity framework ensures that the tenor of these funding sources is of sufficient term in relation to the tenor of its asset base. The goal of Citi’s asset/liability management is to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity and tenor in the liability structure relative to the liquidity profile of the assets. This reduces the risk that liabilities will become due before assets mature or are 

monetized. This excess liquidity is held primarily in the form of high-quality liquid assets (HQLA), as set forth in the table below. 

Citi’s liquidity is managed via a centralized treasury model by Treasury, in conjunction with regional and in-country treasurers with oversight provided by Independent Risk Management and various Asset & Liability Committees (ALCOs) at the Citigroup, region, country and business levels. Pursuant to this approach, Citi’s HQLA is managed with emphasis on asset-liability management and entity-level liquidity adequacy throughout Citi.

Citi’s CRO and Chief Financial Officer co-chair Citigroup’s ALCO, which includes Citi’s Treasurer and other senior executives. The ALCO sets the strategy of the liquidity portfolio and monitors portfolio performance (for additional information about the ALCO, see “Risk Governance—Board and Executive Management Committees” above). Significant changes to portfolio asset allocations are approved by the ALCO. Citi also has other ALCOs, which are established at various organizational levels to ensure appropriate oversight for countries, franchise businesses and regions, serving as the primary governance committees for managing Citi’s balance sheet and liquidity.

As a supplement to ALCO, Citi’s Funding and Liquidity Risk Committee (FLRC) is a more focused assembly for funding and liquidity risk matters. The FLRC reviews and discusses the funding and liquidity risk profile of, as well as risk management practices for Citigroup and Citibank and reports its findings and recommendations to each relevant ALCO as appropriate.

Liquidity Monitoring and Measurement

Stress Testing 

Liquidity stress testing is performed for each of Citi’s major entities, operating subsidiaries and/or countries. Stress testing and scenario analyses are intended to quantify the potential impact of an adverse liquidity event on the balance sheet and liquidity position, and to identify viable funding alternatives that can be utilized. These scenarios include assumptions about significant changes in key funding sources, market triggers (such as credit ratings), potential uses of funding and macroeconomic, geopolitical and other conditions. These conditions include expected and stressed market conditions as well as Company-specific events.

Liquidity stress tests are performed to ascertain potential mismatches between liquidity sources and uses over a variety of time horizons and over different stressed conditions. To monitor the liquidity of an entity, these stress tests and potential mismatches are calculated with varying frequencies, with several tests performed daily.

Given the range of potential stresses, Citi maintains contingency funding plans on a consolidated basis and for individual entities. These plans specify a wide range of readily available actions for a variety of adverse market conditions or idiosyncratic stresses.

92

High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: The amounts set forth in the table above are presented on an average basis. For securities, the amounts represent the liquidity value that potentially could be realized and, therefore, exclude any securities that are encumbered and incorporate any haircuts applicable under the U.S. LCR rule. The table above incorporates various restrictions that could limit the transferability of liquidity between legal entities, including Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act.

(1) Foreign government debt includes securities issued or guaranteed by foreign sovereigns, agencies and multilateral development banks. Foreign government debt securities are held largely to support local liquidity requirements and Citi’s local franchises and principally include government bonds from Japan, Mexico, South Korea, India and Hong Kong.

The table above includes average amounts of HQLA held at Citigroup’s operating entities that are eligible for inclusion in the calculation of Citigroup’s consolidated Liquidity Coverage ratio (LCR), pursuant to the U.S. LCR rules. These amounts include the HQLA needed to meet the minimum requirements at these entities and any amounts in excess of these minimums that are assumed to be transferable to other entities within Citigroup. Citigroup’s HQLA increased quarter-over-quarter as of the fourth quarter of 2021, primarily reflecting an increase in deposits. 

As of December 31, 2021, Citigroup had $961 billion of available liquidity resources to support client and business needs, including end-of-period HQLA assets; additional unencumbered securities, including excess liquidity held at bank entities that is non-transferable to other entities within Citigroup; and available assets not already accounted for within Citi’s HQLA to support Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) and Federal Reserve Bank discount window borrowing capacity.

Short-Term Liquidity Measurement: Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)

In addition to internal 30-day liquidity stress testing performed for Citi’s major entities, operating subsidiaries and countries, Citi also monitors its liquidity by reference to the LCR.

The LCR is calculated by dividing HQLA by estimated net outflows assuming a stressed 30-day period, with the net outflows determined by standardized stress outflow and inflow rates prescribed in the LCR rule. The outflows are partially offset by contractual inflows from assets maturing within 30 days. Similar to outflows, the inflows are calculated based on prescribed factors to various assets categories, such as retail loans as well as unsecured and secured wholesale lending. The minimum LCR requirement is 100%.

 The table below details the components of Citi’s LCR calculation and HQLA in excess of net outflows for the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: The amounts are presented on an average basis.

As of December 31, 2021, Citi’s average LCR was unchanged sequentially, as Citi’s average HQLA and net outflows increased proportionately.

93

Long-Term Liquidity Measurement: Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR)

As previously disclosed, in October 2020, the U.S. banking agencies adopted a final rule to assess the availability of a bank’s stable funding against a required level. 

In general, a bank’s available stable funding includes portions of equity, deposits and long-term debt, while its required stable funding will be based on the liquidity characteristics of its assets, derivatives and commitments. Standardized weightings are required to be applied to the various asset and liabilities classes. The ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding is required to be greater than 100%. 

The final rule became effective beginning July 1, 2021, while public disclosure requirements to report the ratio will occur on a semiannual basis beginning June 30, 2023. Citi was in compliance with the final rule as of December 31, 2021.

Loans

As part of its funding and liquidity objectives, Citi seeks to fund its existing asset base appropriately as well as maintain sufficient liquidity to grow its GCB and ICG businesses, including its loan portfolio. Citi maintains a diversified portfolio of loans to its consumer and institutional clients. The table below details the average loans, by business and/or segment, and the total end-of-period loans for each of the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes loans in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

As of the fourth quarter of 2021, end-of period loans declined 1% year-over-year and were largely unchanged quarter-over-quarter. 

On an average basis, loans were largely unchanged both year-over-year and sequentially. Excluding the impact of FX translation, average loans increased 1% year-over-year and were largely unchanged sequentially. On this basis, average GCB loans declined 4% year-over-year, primarily reflecting the reclassification of loans to held-for-sale as a result of Citi’s 

entry into agreements to sell its consumer banking businesses in Australia and the Philippines.

Excluding the impact of FX translation, average ICG loans increased 5% year-over-year. Loans in corporate lending declined 12% on an average basis, reflecting net repayments as Citi continued to assist its clients in accessing the capital markets, as well as lower demand. Private bank loans increased 10%, largely driven by increased secured lending to high-net-worth clients. Markets and securities services loans increased 29%, reflecting an increase in securitization financing. TTS loans increased 15%, reflecting an increase in trade flows and originations. 

Average Corporate/Other loans continued to decline (down 46%), driven by the wind-down of legacy assets. 

Deposits

The table below details the average deposits, by business and/or segment, and the total end-of-period deposits for each of the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Reflects deposits within retail banking.

(2)Includes deposits in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

End-of-period deposits increased 3% year-over-year and declined 2% sequentially. 

As of the fourth quarter of 2021, on an average basis, deposits increased 5% year-over-year and 2% sequentially. Excluding the impact of FX translation, average deposits grew 6% from the prior-year period and 3% sequentially. The year-over-year increase reflected continued client engagement as well as the elevated level of liquidity in the financial system. Excluding the impact of FX translation, average deposits in GCB increased 7%, with continued strong growth in North America. 

Excluding the impact of FX translation, average deposits in ICG grew 6% year-over-year, with strong growth in the private bank and securities services.

94

Long-Term Debt 

Long-term debt (generally defined as debt with original maturities of one year or more) represents the most significant component of Citi’s funding for the Citigroup parent company and Citi’s non-bank subsidiaries and is a supplementary source of funding for the bank entities. 

Long-term debt is an important funding source due in part to its multiyear contractual maturity structure. The weighted-average maturity of unsecured long-term debt issued by Citigroup and its affiliates (including Citibank) with a remaining life greater than one year was approximately 8.6 years as of December 31, 2021, unchanged from the prior quarter and the prior year. The weighted-average maturity is calculated based on the contractual maturity of each security. For securities that are redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the holder, the weighted-average maturity is calculated based on the earliest date an option becomes exercisable.

Citi’s long-term debt outstanding at the Citigroup parent company includes benchmark senior and subordinated debt and what Citi refers to as customer-related debt, consisting of structured notes, such as equity- and credit-linked notes, as well as non-structured notes. Citi’s issuance of customer-related debt is generally driven by customer demand and complements benchmark debt issuance as a source of funding for Citi’s non-bank entities. Citi’s long-term debt at the bank includes Citibank benchmark senior debt, FHLB borrowings and securitizations. 

Long-Term Debt Outstanding

The following table sets forth Citi’s end-of-period total long-term debt outstanding for each of the dates indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Amounts represent the current value of long-term debt on Citi’s Consolidated Balance Sheet that, for certain debt instruments, includes consideration of fair value, hedging impacts and unamortized discounts and premiums.

(1)Non-bank includes long-term debt issued to third parties by the parent holding company (Citigroup) and Citi’s non-bank subsidiaries (including broker-dealer subsidiaries) that are consolidated into Citigroup. As of December 31, 2021, non-bank included $65.9 billion of long-term debt issued by Citi’s broker-dealer and other subsidiaries, as well as certain Citigroup consolidated hedging activities.

(2)Local country and other includes debt issued by Citi’s affiliates in support of their local operations. Within non-bank, certain secured financing is also included. Within bank, borrowings under certain U.S. government-sponsored liquidity programs are also included. 

(3)Predominantly credit card securitizations, primarily backed by branded credit card receivables.

As of the fourth quarter of 2021, Citi’s total long-term debt outstanding decreased year-over-year, primarily driven by declines in unsecured benchmark senior debt at the non-bank entities and the bank, as well as securitizations and FHLB borrowings at the bank. The decrease in total long-term debt was partially offset by the issuance of customer-related debt at the non-bank entities. Sequentially, long-term debt outstanding decreased, driven primarily by decreases in unsecured benchmark senior debt at the non-bank entities and securitizations at the bank, partially offset by the issuance of customer-related debt at the non-bank entities.

As part of its liability management, Citi also has considered, and may continue to consider, opportunities to redeem or repurchase its long-term debt pursuant to open market purchases, tender offers or other means. Such redemptions and repurchases help reduce Citi’s overall funding costs. During 2021, Citi redeemed or repurchased an aggregate of approximately $33.8 billion of its outstanding long-term debt. 

95

Long-Term Debt Issuances and Maturities

The table below details Citi’s long-term debt issuances and maturities (including repurchases and redemptions) during the periods presented:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The table below shows Citi’s aggregate long-term debt maturities (including repurchases and redemptions) in 2021, as well as its aggregate expected remaining long-term debt maturities by year as of December 31, 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

96

Resolution Plan

Citi is required under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act) and the rules promulgated by the FDIC and Federal Reserve Board to periodically submit a plan for Citi’s rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress or failure. 

On December 17, 2019, the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC issued feedback on the resolution plans filed on July 1, 2019 by the eight U.S. Global Systemically Important Banks, including Citigroup. The Federal Reserve Board and FDIC identified one shortcoming, but no deficiencies, in Citigroup's resolution plan relating to governance mechanisms. Based on regulatory changes effective December 31, 2019, Citigroup's 2021 resolution plan submission, which was filed on July 1, 2021 was a targeted resolution plan, only including a subset of the information of a full resolution plan and additional information, identified by the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC on July 1, 2020. Citigroup will alternate between submitting a full resolution plan and a targeted resolution plan on a biennial cycle. For additional information on Citi’s resolution plan submissions, see “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” above. Citigroup’s preferred resolution strategy is “single point of entry” under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 

Under Citi’s preferred “single point of entry” resolution plan strategy, only Citigroup, the parent holding company, would enter into bankruptcy, while Citigroup’s material legal entities (as defined in the public section of its 2021 resolution plan, which can be found on the Federal Reserve Board’s and FDIC’s websites) would remain operational outside of any resolution or insolvency proceedings. Citigroup’s resolution plan has been designed to minimize the risk of systemic impact to the U.S. and global financial systems, while maximizing the value of the bankruptcy estate for the benefit of Citigroup’s creditors, including its unsecured long-term debt holders. 

In addition, in line with the Federal Reserve Board’s final total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) rule, Citigroup believes it has developed the resolution plan so that Citigroup’s shareholders and unsecured creditors—including its unsecured long-term debt holders—bear any losses resulting from Citigroup’s bankruptcy. Accordingly, any value realized by holders of its unsecured long-term debt may not be sufficient to repay the amounts owed to such debt holders in the event of a bankruptcy or other resolution proceeding of Citigroup.

The FDIC has also indicated that it was developing a single point of entry strategy to implement the Orderly Liquidation Authority under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, which provides the FDIC with the ability to resolve a firm when it is determined that bankruptcy would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the U.S.

As previously disclosed, in response to feedback received from the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC, Citigroup took the following actions:

(i)Citicorp LLC (Citicorp), an existing wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup, was established as an intermediate holding company (an IHC) for certain of Citigroup’s operating material legal entities;

(ii)Citigroup executed an inter-affiliate agreement with Citicorp, Citigroup’s operating material legal entities and certain other affiliated entities pursuant to which Citicorp is required to provide liquidity and capital support to Citigroup’s operating material legal entities in the event Citigroup were to enter bankruptcy proceedings (Citi Support Agreement); 

(iii)pursuant to the Citi Support Agreement:

•Citigroup made an initial contribution of assets, including certain high-quality liquid assets and inter-affiliate loans (Contributable Assets), to Citicorp, and Citicorp became the business-as-usual funding vehicle for Citigroup’s operating material legal entities;

•Citigroup will be obligated to continue to transfer Contributable Assets to Citicorp over time, subject to certain amounts retained by Citigroup to, among other things, meet Citigroup’s near-term cash needs; 

•in the event of a Citigroup bankruptcy, Citigroup will be required to contribute most of its remaining assets to Citicorp; and

(iv)the obligations of both Citigroup and Citicorp under the Citi Support Agreement, as well as the Contributable Assets, are secured pursuant to a security agreement.

The Citi Support Agreement provides two mechanisms, besides Citicorp’s issuing of dividends to Citigroup, pursuant to which Citicorp will be required to transfer cash to Citigroup during business as usual so that Citigroup can fund its debt service as well as other operating needs: (i) one or more funding notes issued by Citicorp to Citigroup and (ii) a committed line of credit under which Citicorp may make loans to Citigroup. 

Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC)

U.S. GSIBs are required to maintain minimum levels of TLAC and eligible LTD, each set by reference to the GSIB’s consolidated risk-weighted assets (RWA) and total leverage exposure. The intended purpose of the requirements is to facilitate the orderly resolution of U.S. GSIBs under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act. For additional information, including Citi’s TLAC and LTD amounts and ratios, see “Capital Resources—Current Regulatory Capital Standards” and “Risk Factors—Compliance Risks” above. 

97

SECURED FUNDING TRANSACTIONS AND SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

Citi supplements its primary sources of funding with short-term financings that generally include (i) secured funding transactions consisting of securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, i.e., repos, and (ii) to a lesser extent, short-term borrowings consisting of commercial paper and borrowings from the FHLB and other market participants. 

Secured Funding Transactions

Secured funding is primarily accessed through Citi’s broker-dealer subsidiaries to fund efficiently both (i) secured lending activity and (ii) a portion of the securities inventory held in the context of market-making and customer activities. Citi also executes a smaller portion of its secured funding transactions through its bank entities, which are typically collateralized by government debt securities. Generally, daily changes in the level of Citi’s secured funding are primarily due to fluctuations in secured lending activity in the matched book (as described below) and securities inventory. 

Secured funding of $191 billion as of December 31, 2021 decreased 3% from the prior-year period and 9% sequentially. Excluding the impact of FX translation, secured funding decreased 1% from the prior-year period and 8% sequentially, driven by normal business activity. The average balance for secured funding was approximately $222 billion for the quarter ended December 31, 2021.

The portion of secured funding in the broker-dealer subsidiaries that funds secured lending is commonly referred to as “matched book” activity. The majority of this activity is secured by high-quality liquid securities such as U.S. Treasury 

securities, U.S. agency securities and foreign government debt 

securities. Other secured funding is secured by less liquid securities, including equity securities, corporate bonds and asset-backed securities, the tenor of which is generally equal to or longer than the tenor of the corresponding matched book assets.

The remainder of the secured funding activity in the broker-dealer subsidiaries serves to fund securities inventory held in the context of market-making and customer activities. To maintain reliable funding under a wide range of market conditions, including under periods of stress, Citi manages these activities by taking into consideration the quality of the underlying collateral and establishing minimum required funding tenors. The weighted average maturity of Citi’s secured funding of less liquid securities inventory was greater than 110 days as of December 31, 2021.

Citi manages the risks in its secured funding by conducting daily stress tests to account for changes in capacity, tenor, haircut, collateral profile and client actions. In addition, Citi maintains counterparty diversification by establishing concentration triggers and assessing counterparty reliability and stability under stress. Citi generally sources secured funding from more than 150 counterparties.

Short-Term Borrowings

Citi’s short-term borrowings of $28 billion as of the fourth quarter of 2021 decreased 5% year-over-year, reflecting a decline in FHLB advances, and 6% sequentially, primarily driven by a decline in structured notes (see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on Citigroup’s and its affiliates’ outstanding short-term borrowings).

98

CREDIT RATINGS

Citigroup’s funding and liquidity, funding capacity, ability to access capital markets and other sources of funds, the cost of these funds and its ability to maintain certain deposits are partially dependent on its credit ratings. 

The table below shows the ratings for Citigroup and Citibank as of December 31, 2021. While not included in the table below, the long-term and short-term ratings of Citigroup Global Markets Holding Inc. (CGMHI) were BBB+/A-2 at S&P Global Ratings and A+/F1 at Fitch as of December 31, 2021.

Ratings as of December 31, 2021

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Potential Impacts of Ratings Downgrades

Ratings downgrades by Moody’s, Fitch or S&P Global Ratings could negatively impact Citigroup’s and/or Citibank’s funding and liquidity due to reduced funding capacity, including derivative triggers, which could take the form of cash obligations and collateral requirements.

The following information is provided for the purpose of analyzing the potential funding and liquidity impact to Citigroup and Citibank of a hypothetical simultaneous 

ratings downgrade across all three major rating agencies. This analysis is subject to certain estimates, estimation methodologies, judgments and uncertainties. Uncertainties include potential ratings limitations that certain entities may have with respect to permissible counterparties, as well as general subjective counterparty behavior. For example, certain corporate customers and markets counterparties could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit transactions in certain contracts or market instruments with Citi. Changes in counterparty behavior could impact Citi’s funding and liquidity, as well as the results of operations of certain of its businesses. The actual impact to Citigroup or Citibank is unpredictable and may differ materially from the potential funding and liquidity impacts described below. For additional information on the impact of credit rating changes on Citi and its applicable subsidiaries, see “Risk Factors—Liquidity Risks” above.

Citigroup Inc. and Citibank—Potential Derivative Triggers

As of December 31, 2021, Citi estimates that a hypothetical one-notch downgrade of the senior debt/long-term rating of Citigroup Inc. across all three major rating agencies could impact Citigroup’s funding and liquidity due to derivative triggers by approximately $0.8 billion, compared to $1.1 billion as of September 30, 2021. Other funding sources, such as secured financing transactions and other margin requirements, for which there are no explicit triggers, could also be adversely affected.

As of December 31, 2021, Citi estimates that a hypothetical one-notch downgrade of the senior debt/long-term rating of Citibank across all three major rating agencies could impact Citibank’s funding and liquidity due to derivative triggers by approximately $0.6 billion, compared to $0.5 billion as of September 30, 2021. Other funding sources, such as secured financing transactions and other margin requirements, for which there are no explicit triggers, could also be adversely affected.

In total, as of December 31, 2021, Citi estimates that a one-notch downgrade of Citigroup and Citibank across all three major rating agencies could result in increased aggregate cash obligations and collateral requirements of approximately $1.4 billion, compared to $1.6 billion as of September 30, 2021 (see also Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). As detailed under “High-Quality Liquid Assets” above, Citigroup has various liquidity resources available to its bank and non-bank entities in part as a contingency for the potential events described above.

In addition, a broad range of mitigating actions are currently included in Citigroup’s and Citibank’s contingency funding plans. For Citigroup, these mitigating factors include, but are not limited to, accessing surplus funding capacity from existing clients, tailoring levels of secured lending and adjusting the size of select trading books and collateralized borrowings at certain Citibank subsidiaries. Mitigating actions available to Citibank include, but are not limited to, selling or financing highly liquid government securities, tailoring levels of secured lending, adjusting the size of select trading assets, reducing loan originations and renewals, raising additional deposits or borrowing from the FHLB or central banks. Citi believes these mitigating actions could substantially reduce the funding and liquidity risk, if any, of the potential downgrades described above.

99

Citibank—Additional Potential Impacts

In addition to the above derivative triggers, Citi believes that a potential downgrade of Citibank’s senior debt/long-term rating across any of the three major rating agencies could also have an adverse impact on the commercial paper/short-term rating of Citibank. Citibank has provided liquidity commitments to consolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits, primarily in the form of asset purchase agreements. As of December 31, 2021, Citibank had liquidity commitments of approximately $9.0 billion to consolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits, compared to $10.0 billion as of September 30, 2021 (for additional information, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

In addition to the above-referenced liquidity resources of certain Citibank entities, Citibank could reduce the funding and liquidity risk, if any, of the potential downgrades described above through mitigating actions, including repricing or reducing certain commitments to commercial paper conduits. In the event of the potential downgrades described above, Citi believes that certain corporate customers could re-evaluate their deposit relationships with Citibank. This re-evaluation could result in clients adjusting their discretionary deposit levels or changing their depository institution, which could potentially reduce certain deposit levels at Citibank. However, Citi could choose to adjust pricing, offer alternative deposit products to its existing customers or seek to attract deposits from new customers, in addition to the mitigating actions referenced above.

100

MARKET RISK

OVERVIEW

Market risk is the potential for losses arising from changes in the value of Citi’s assets and liabilities resulting from changes in market variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices and credit spreads, as well as their implied volatilities. Market risk emanates from both Citi’s trading and non-trading portfolios. For additional information on market risk and market risk management, see “Risk Factors” above.

Each business is required to establish, with approval from Citi’s market risk management, a market risk limit framework for identified risk factors that clearly defines approved risk profiles and is within the parameters of Citi’s overall risk appetite. These limits are monitored by the Risk organization, including various regional, legal entity and business Risk Management committees, Citi’s country and business Asset & Liability Committees and the Citigroup Risk Management and Asset & Liability Committees. In all cases, the businesses are ultimately responsible for the market risks taken and for remaining within their defined limits.

MARKET RISK OF NON-TRADING PORTFOLIOS 

Market risk from non-trading portfolios stems from the potential impact of changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates on Citi’s net interest income, and on Citi’s Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) from its debt securities portfolios. Market risk from non-trading portfolios also includes the potential impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on Citi’s capital invested in foreign currencies. 

Net Interest Income at Risk

Net interest income, for interest rate exposure purposes, is the difference between the yield earned on the non-trading portfolio assets (including customer loans) and the rate paid on the liabilities (including customer deposits or company borrowings). Net interest income is affected by changes in the level of interest rates, as well as the amounts and mix of assets and liabilities, and the timing of contractual and assumed repricing of assets and liabilities to reflect market rates.

Citi’s principal measure of risk to net interest income is interest rate exposure (IRE). IRE measures the change in expected net interest income in each currency resulting solely from unanticipated changes in forward interest rates. 

 Citi’s estimated IRE incorporates various assumptions including prepayment rates on loans, customer behavior and the impact of pricing decisions. For example, in rising interest rate scenarios, portions of the deposit portfolio may be assumed to experience rate increases that are less than the change in market interest rates. In declining interest rate scenarios, it is assumed that mortgage portfolios experience higher prepayment rates. Citi’s estimated IRE below assumes that its businesses and/or Citi Treasury make no additional changes in balances or positioning in response to the unanticipated rate changes.

Citi is planning to transition the sensitivity analysis for its IRE (see the current IRE sensitivity impacts below), employing enhanced methodologies and changes to certain 

assumptions. The changes include, among other things, assumptions around the projected balance sheet (being more static), coupled with revisions to the treatment of certain business contributions to IRE, mainly accrual positions in ICG’s Markets businesses. These changes are planned for 2022, and will result in a higher impact to Citi’s NII and AOCI and a better reflection of the nature of the portfolios. 

In order to manage changes in interest rates effectively, Citi may modify pricing on new customer loans and deposits, purchase fixed-rate securities, issue debt that is either fixed or floating or enter into derivative transactions that have the opposite risk exposures. Citi regularly assesses the viability of these and other strategies to reduce its interest rate risks and implements such strategies when it believes those actions are prudent. 

Citi manages interest rate risk as a consolidated Company-wide position. Citi’s client-facing businesses create interest rate-sensitive positions, including loans and deposits, as part of their ongoing activities. Citi Treasury aggregates these risk positions and manages them centrally. Operating within established limits, Citi Treasury makes positioning decisions and uses tools, such as Citi’s investment securities portfolio, company-issued debt and interest rate derivatives, to target the desired risk profile. Changes in Citi’s interest rate risk position reflect the accumulated changes in all non-trading assets and liabilities, with potentially large and offsetting impacts, as well as in Citi Treasury’s positioning decisions.

Citigroup employs additional measurements, including stress testing the impact of non-linear interest rate movements on the value of the balance sheet, and the analysis of portfolio duration and volatility, particularly as they relate to mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and the potential impact of the change in the spread between different market indices.

Interest Rate Risk of Investment Portfolios—Impact 

on AOCI

Citi also measures the potential impacts of changes in interest rates on the value of its AOCI, which can in turn impact Citi’s common equity and tangible common equity. This will impact Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 and other regulatory capital ratios. Citi’s goal is to benefit from an increase in the market level of interest rates, while limiting the impact of changes in AOCI on its regulatory capital position.

AOCI at risk is managed as part of the Company-wide interest rate risk position. AOCI at risk considers potential changes in AOCI (and the corresponding impact on the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio) relative to Citi’s capital generation capacity.

101

The following table sets forth the estimated impact to Citi’s net interest income, AOCI and the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio (on a fully implemented basis), each assuming an unanticipated parallel instantaneous 100 basis point (bps) increase in interest rates:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Certain trading-oriented businesses within Citi have accrual-accounted positions that are excluded from the estimated impact to net interest income in the table, since these exposures are managed economically in combination with mark-to-market positions. The U.S. dollar interest rate exposure associated with these businesses was $(179) million for a 100 bps instantaneous increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2021.

(2)Includes the effect of changes in interest rates on AOCI related to investment securities, cash flow hedges and pension liability adjustments.

The year-over-year increase in the estimated impact to net interest income primarily reflected changes in Citi’s balance sheet composition and Citi Treasury positioning. The year-over-year changes in the estimated impact to AOCI and the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio primarily reflected the impact of the composition of Citi Treasury’s investment and derivatives portfolio.

In the event of a parallel instantaneous 100 bps increase in interest rates, Citi expects that the negative impact to AOCI would be offset in shareholders’ equity through the expected recovery of the impact on AOCI through accretion of Citi’s investment portfolio over a period of time. As of December 31, 2021, Citi expects that the $4.6 billion negative 

impact to AOCI in such a scenario could potentially be offset over approximately 27 months.

The following table sets forth the estimated impact to Citi’s net interest income, AOCI and the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio (on a fully implemented basis) under five different changes in interest rate scenarios for the U.S. dollar and Citi’s other currencies. The 100 bps downward rate scenarios are impacted by the low level of interest rates in several countries and the assumption that market interest rates, as well as rates paid to depositors and charged to borrowers, do not fall below zero (i.e., the “flooring assumption”). The rate scenarios are also impacted by convexity related to mortgage products.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Each scenario assumes that the rate change will occur instantaneously. Changes in interest rates for maturities between the overnight rate and the 10-year rate are interpolated. 

(1)Includes the effect of changes in interest rates on AOCI related to investment securities, cash flow hedges and pension liability adjustments.

As shown in the table above, the magnitude of the impact to Citi’s net interest income and AOCI is greater under Scenario 2 as compared to Scenario 3. This is because the combination of changes to Citi’s investment portfolio, partially offset by changes related to Citi’s pension liabilities, results in a net position that is more sensitive to rates at shorter- and intermediate-term maturities.

102

Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates—Impacts on AOCI 

and Capital

As of December 31, 2021, Citi estimates that an unanticipated parallel instantaneous 5% appreciation of the U.S. dollar against all of the other currencies in which Citi has invested capital could reduce Citi’s tangible common equity (TCE) by approximately $1.5 billion, or 0.9%, as a result of changes to Citi’s FX translation adjustment in AOCI, net of hedges. This impact would be primarily due to changes in the value of the Mexican peso, Euro, Singapore dollar and Indian rupee.

This impact is also before any mitigating actions Citi may take, including ongoing management of its FX translation exposure. Specifically, as currency movements change the value of Citi’s net investments in foreign currency-denominated capital, these movements also change the value of Citi’s risk-weighted assets denominated in those currencies. This, coupled with Citi’s foreign currency hedging strategies, such as foreign currency borrowings, foreign currency forwards and other currency hedging instruments, lessens the impact of foreign currency movements on Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio. Changes in these hedging strategies, as well as hedging costs, divestitures and tax impacts, can further affect the actual impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on Citi’s capital as compared to an unanticipated parallel shock, as described above.

In addition, the effect of Citi’s ongoing management strategies with respect to quarterly changes in foreign exchange rates, and the quarterly impact of these changes on Citi’s TCE and Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio, are shown in the table below. For additional information on the changes in AOCI, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) FX spot rate change is a weighted average based on Citi’s quarterly average GAAP capital exposure to foreign countries.

103

Interest Revenue/Expense and Net Interest Margin (NIM)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Revenue previously referred to as net interest revenue is now referred to as net interest income. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2021, Citi reclassified deposit insurance expenses (FDIC and other similar insurance assessments outside of the U.S.) from Interest expense to Other operating expenses for all periods presented. Amounts reclassified for each year were $1,207 million for 2021, $1,203 million for 2020 and $781 million for 2019. 

(1)Interest revenue and Net interest income include the taxable equivalent adjustments related to the tax-exempt bond portfolio and certain tax-advantaged loan programs (based on the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%) of $192 million, $196 million and $208 million for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 

(2)Interest expense associated with certain hybrid financial instruments, which are classified as Long-term debt and accounted for at fair value, is reported together

 with any changes in fair value as part of Principal transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income and is therefore not reflected in Interest expense in the 

 table above.

(3) The average rate on interest revenue and net interest margin reflects the taxable equivalent gross-up adjustment. See footnote 1 above.

(4) Citi’s net interest margin (NIM) is calculated by dividing net interest income by average interest-earning assets.

104

Non-ICG Markets Net Interest Income 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Interest revenue and Net interest income include the taxable equivalent adjustments discussed in the table above.

Citi’s net interest income (NII) in the fourth quarter of 2021 was $10.8 billion ($10.9 billion on a taxable equivalent basis), largely unchanged versus the prior year, as a modest increase in non-ICG Markets NII (approximately $60 million) offset an equivalent decline in ICG Markets (fixed income markets and equity markets). Citi’s NIM was 1.98% on a taxable equivalent basis in the fourth quarter of 2021, a decrease of one basis point from the prior quarter, largely reflecting deposit growth. 

Citi’s NII for 2021 decreased 5%, or approximately $2.3 billion, to $42.5 billion ($42.7 billion on a taxable equivalent basis) versus the prior year. The decrease was primarily related to a decline in non-ICG Markets NII, largely reflecting lower interest rates and lower loan balances. In 2021, Citi’s

NIM was 1.99% on a taxable equivalent basis, compared to 2.22% in 2020, primarily driven by lower rates and a mix-shift in balances. 

105

Additional Interest Rate Details

Average Balances and Interest Rates—Assets(1)(2)(3)

Taxable Equivalent Basis

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Interest revenue and Net interest income include the taxable equivalent adjustments primarily related to the tax-exempt bond portfolio and certain tax-advantaged loan programs (based on the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%) of $192 million, $196 million and $208 million for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

(2)Interest rates and amounts include the effects of risk management activities associated with the respective asset categories.

(3)Monthly or quarterly averages have been used by certain subsidiaries where daily averages are unavailable.

(4)Average rates reflect prevailing local interest rates, including inflationary effects and monetary corrections in certain countries.

(5)Average volumes of securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell are reported net pursuant to ASC 210-20-45. However, Interest revenue excludes the impact of ASC 210-20-45.

(6)The fair value carrying amounts of derivative contracts are reported net, pursuant to ASC 815-10-45, in Non-interest-earning assets and Other non-interest-bearing liabilities.

(7)Interest expense on Trading account liabilities of ICG is reported as a reduction of Interest revenue. Interest revenue and Interest expense on cash collateral positions are reported in interest on Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities, respectively.

(8)Includes cash-basis loans.

(9)Includes Brokerage receivables.

106

Average Balances and Interest Rates—Liabilities and Equity, and Net Interest Income(1)(2)(3)

Taxable Equivalent Basis

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Interest revenue and Net interest income include the taxable equivalent adjustments discussed in the table above.

(2)Interest rates and amounts include the effects of risk management activities associated with the respective liability categories.

(3)Monthly or quarterly averages have been used by certain subsidiaries where daily averages are unavailable.

(4)Consists of other time deposits and savings deposits. Savings deposits are made up of insured money market accounts, NOW accounts and other savings deposits. The interest expense on savings deposits includes FDIC deposit insurance assessments.

(5)Average rates reflect prevailing local interest rates, including inflationary effects and monetary corrections in certain countries.

(6)Average volumes of securities sold under agreements to repurchase are reported net pursuant to ASC 210-20-45. However, Interest expense excludes the impact of ASC 210-20-45.

(7)The fair value carrying amounts of derivative contracts are reported net, pursuant to ASC 815-10-45, in Non-interest-earning assets and Other non-interest-bearing liabilities.

107

(8)Interest expense on Trading account liabilities of ICG is reported as a reduction of Interest revenue. Interest revenue and Interest expense on cash collateral positions are reported in interest on Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities, respectively.

(9)Includes Brokerage payables.

(10)Excludes hybrid financial instruments and beneficial interests in consolidated VIEs that are classified as Long-term debt, as the changes in fair value for these obligations are recorded in Principal transactions.

(11)Includes allocations for capital and funding costs based on the location of the asset.

Analysis of Changes in Interest Revenue(1)(2)(3)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Interest revenue and Net interest income include the taxable equivalent adjustments discussed in the table above.

(2)Rate/volume variance is allocated based on the percentage relationship of changes in volume and changes in rate to the total net change.

(3)Changes in average rates reflect changes in prevailing local interest rates, including inflationary effects and monetary corrections in certain countries.

(4)Interest expense on Trading account liabilities of ICG is reported as a reduction of Interest revenue. Interest revenue and Interest expense on cash collateral positions are reported in interest on Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities, respectively.

(5)Includes cash-basis loans.

(6)Includes Brokerage receivables.

108

Analysis of Changes in Interest Expense and Net Interest Income(1)(2)(3)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Interest revenue and Net interest income include the taxable equivalent adjustments discussed in the table above.

(2)Rate/volume variance is allocated based on the percentage relationship of changes in volume and changes in rate to the total net change.

(3)Changes in average rates reflect changes in prevailing local interest rates, including inflationary effects and monetary corrections in certain countries.

(4)Interest expense on Trading account liabilities of ICG is reported as a reduction of Interest revenue. Interest revenue and Interest expense on cash collateral positions are reported in interest on Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities, respectively.

(5)Includes Brokerage payables.

109

Market Risk of Trading Portfolios

Trading portfolios include positions resulting from market-making activities, hedges of certain available-for-sale (AFS) debt securities, the CVA relating to derivative counterparties and all associated hedges, fair value option loans and hedges of the loan portfolio within capital markets origination within ICG.

The market risk of Citi’s trading portfolios is monitored using a combination of quantitative and qualitative measures, including, but not limited to:

•factor sensitivities; 

•value at risk (VAR); and 

•stress testing.

Each trading portfolio across Citi’s businesses has its own market risk limit framework encompassing these measures and other controls, including trading mandates, new product approval, permitted product lists and pre-trade approval for larger, more complex and less liquid transactions.

The following chart of total daily trading-related revenue (loss) captures trading volatility and shows the number of days in which revenues for Citi’s trading businesses fell within particular ranges. Trading-related revenue includes trading, net interest and other revenue associated with Citi’s trading businesses. It excludes DVA, FVA and CVA adjustments incurred due to changes in the credit quality of counterparties, as well as any associated hedges of that CVA. In addition, it excludes fees and other revenue associated with capital markets origination activities. Trading-related revenues are driven by both customer flows and the changes in valuation of the trading inventory. As shown in the chart below, positive trading-related revenue was achieved for 95.8% of the trading days in 2021.

Daily Trading-Related Revenue (Loss)(1)—Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2021

In millions of dollars

(1) Reflects the effects of asymmetrical accounting for economic hedges of certain AFS debt securities. Specifically, the change in the fair value of hedging derivatives is included in trading-related revenue, while the offsetting change in the fair value of hedged AFS debt securities is included in AOCI and not reflected above.

110

Factor Sensitivities

Factor sensitivities are expressed as the change in the value of a position for a defined change in a market risk factor, such as a change in the value of a U.S. Treasury Bond for a one-basis-point change in interest rates. Citi’s Global Market Risk function, within the Independent Risk Management organization, works to ensure that factor sensitivities are calculated, monitored and limited for all material risks taken in the trading portfolios.

Value at Risk (VAR)

VAR estimates, at a 99% confidence level, the potential decline in the value of a position or a portfolio under normal market conditions assuming a one-day holding period. VAR statistics, which are based on historical data, can be materially different across firms due to differences in portfolio composition, differences in VAR methodologies and differences in model parameters. As a result, Citi believes VAR statistics can be used more effectively as indicators of trends in risk-taking within a firm, rather than as a basis for inferring differences in risk-taking across firms.

Citi uses a single, independently approved Monte Carlo simulation VAR model (see “VAR Model Review and Validation” below), which has been designed to capture material risk sensitivities (such as first- and second-order sensitivities of positions to changes in market prices) of 

various asset classes/risk types (such as interest rate, credit spread, foreign exchange, equity and commodity risks). Citi’s VAR includes positions that are measured at fair value; it does not include investment securities classified as AFS or HTM. For information on these securities, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Citi believes its VAR model is conservatively calibrated to incorporate fat-tail scaling and the greater of short-term (approximately the most recent month) and long-term (three years) market volatility. The Monte Carlo simulation involves approximately 450,000 market factors, making use of approximately 350,000 time series, with sensitivities updated daily, volatility parameters updated intra-monthly and correlation parameters updated monthly. The conservative features of the VAR calibration contribute an approximate 33% add-on to what would be a VAR estimated under the assumption of stable and perfectly, normally distributed markets. 

As set forth in the table below, Citi’s average trading VAR decreased $5 million from 2020 to 2021, mainly due to a reduction of market volatility, given improved macroeconomic conditions, compared to 2020. Citi’s average trading and credit portfolio VAR decreased $24 million from 2020 to 2021 due to VAR volatility recalibration.

Year-end and Average Trading VAR and Trading and Credit Portfolio VAR 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Covariance adjustment (also known as diversification benefit) equals the difference between the total VAR and the sum of the VARs tied to each risk type. The benefit reflects the fact that the risks within individual and across risk types are not perfectly correlated and, consequently, the total VAR on a given day will be lower than the sum of the VARs relating to each risk type. The determination of the primary drivers of changes to the covariance adjustment is made by an examination of the impact of both model parameter and position changes. 

(2) The total trading VAR includes mark-to-market and certain fair value option trading positions in ICG, with the exception of hedges to the loan portfolio, fair value option loans and all CVA exposures. Available-for-sale and accrual exposures are not included.

(3) The specific risk-only component represents the level of equity and fixed income issuer-specific risk embedded in VAR. 

(4) The credit portfolio is composed of mark-to-market positions associated with non-trading business units including Citi Treasury, the CVA relating to derivative counterparties and all associated CVA hedges. FVA and DVA are not included. The credit portfolio also includes hedges to the loan portfolio, fair value option loans and hedges to the leveraged finance pipeline within capital markets origination in ICG.

111

The table below provides the range of market factor VARs associated with Citi’s total trading VAR, inclusive of specific risk:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: No covariance adjustment can be inferred from the above table as the high and low for each market factor will be from different close-of-business dates.

The following table provides the VAR for ICG, excluding the CVA relating to derivative counterparties, hedges of CVA, fair value option loans and hedges to the loan portfolio:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

VAR Model Review and Validation

Generally, Citi’s VAR review and model validation process entails reviewing the model framework, major assumptions and implementation of the mathematical algorithm. In addition, product specific back-testing on portfolios is

periodically completed as part of the ongoing model performance monitoring process and reviewed with Citi’s U.S. banking regulators. Furthermore, Regulatory VAR back-testing (as described below) is performed against buy-and-hold profit and loss on a monthly basis for multiple sub-portfolios across the organization (trading desk level, ICG business segment and Citigroup) and the results are shared with U.S. banking regulators.

Material VAR model and assumption changes must be independently validated within Citi’s Independent Risk Management organization. All model changes, including those for the VAR model, are validated by the model validation group within Citi’s Model Risk Management. In the event of significant model changes, parallel model runs are undertaken prior to implementation. In addition, significant model and assumption changes are subject to the periodic reviews and approval by Citi’s U.S. banking regulators.

Citi uses the same independently validated VAR model for both Regulatory VAR and Risk Management VAR (i.e., total trading and total trading and credit portfolios VARs) and, as such, the model review and validation process for both purposes is as described above.

Regulatory VAR, which is calculated in accordance with Basel III, differs from Risk Management VAR due to the fact that certain positions included in Risk Management VAR are not eligible for market risk treatment in Regulatory VAR. The 

composition of Risk Management VAR is discussed under “Value at Risk” above. The applicability of the VAR model for positions eligible for market risk treatment under U.S. regulatory capital rules is periodically reviewed and approved by Citi’s U.S. banking regulators.

In accordance with Basel III, Regulatory VAR includes all trading book-covered positions and all foreign exchange and commodity exposures. Pursuant to Basel III, Regulatory VAR excludes positions that fail to meet the intent and ability to trade requirements and are therefore classified as non-trading book and categories of exposures that are specifically excluded as covered positions. Regulatory VAR excludes CVA on derivative instruments and DVA on Citi’s own fair value option liabilities. CVA hedges are excluded from Regulatory VAR and included in credit risk-weighted assets as computed under the Advanced Approaches for determining risk-weighted assets.

Regulatory VAR Back-Testing

In accordance with Basel III, Citi is required to perform back-testing to evaluate the effectiveness of its Regulatory VAR model. Regulatory VAR back-testing is the process in which the daily one-day VAR, at a 99% confidence interval, is compared to the buy-and-hold profit and loss (i.e., the profit and loss impact if the portfolio is held constant at the end of the day and re-priced the following day). Buy-and-hold profit and loss represents the daily mark-to-market profit and loss attributable to price movements in covered positions from the close of the previous business day. Buy-and-hold profit and loss excludes realized trading revenue, net interest, fees and commissions, intra-day trading profit and loss and changes in reserves.

Based on a 99% confidence level, Citi would expect two to three days in any one year where buy-and-hold losses exceed the Regulatory VAR. Given the conservative calibration of Citi’s VAR model (as a result of taking the greater of short- and long-term volatilities and fat-tail scaling of volatilities), Citi would expect fewer exceptions under normal and stable market conditions. Periods of unstable market conditions could increase the number of back-testing exceptions.

112

The following graph shows the daily buy-and-hold profit and loss associated with Citi’s covered positions compared to Citi’s one-day Regulatory VAR during 2021. As of December 31, 2021, one back-testing exception was observed at the Citigroup level.

The difference between the 54.4% of days with buy-and-hold gains for Regulatory VAR back-testing and the 95.8% of days with trading, net interest and other revenue associated with Citi’s trading businesses, shown in the histogram of daily trading-related revenue below, reflects, among other things, that a significant portion of Citi’s trading-related revenue is not generated from daily price movements on these positions and exposures, as well as differences in the portfolio composition of Regulatory VAR and Risk Management VAR.

Regulatory Trading VAR and Associated Buy-and-Hold Profit and Loss(1)—12 Months ended December 31, 2021

In millions of dollars

(1) Buy-and-hold profit and loss, as defined by the banking regulators under Basel III, represents the daily mark-to-market revenue movement attributable to the trading position from the close of the previous business day. Buy-and-hold profit and loss excludes realized trading revenue and net interest intra-day trading profit and loss on new and terminated trades, as well as changes in reserves. Therefore, it is not comparable to the trading-related revenue presented in the chart of daily trading-related revenue above.

113

Stress Testing

Citi performs market risk stress testing on a regular basis to estimate the impact of extreme market movements. It is performed on individual positions and trading portfolios, as well as in aggregate, inclusive of multiple trading portfolios. Citi’s market risk management, after consultations with the businesses, develops both systemic and specific stress scenarios, reviews the output of periodic stress testing exercises and uses the information to assess the ongoing appropriateness of exposure levels and limits. Citi uses two complementary approaches to market risk stress testing across all major risk factors (i.e., equity, foreign exchange, commodity, interest rate and credit spreads): top-down systemic stresses and bottom-up business-specific stresses. Systemic stresses are designed to quantify the potential impact of extreme market movements on an institution-wide basis, and are constructed using both historical periods of market stress and projections of adverse economic scenarios. Business-specific stresses are designed to probe the risks of particular portfolios and market segments, especially those risks that are not fully captured in VAR and systemic stresses.

The systemic stress scenarios and business-specific stress scenarios at Citi are used in several reports reviewed by senior management and also to calculate internal risk capital for trading market risk. In general, changes in market values are defined over a one-year horizon. For the most liquid positions and market factors, changes in market values are defined over a shorter two-month horizon. The limited set of positions and market factors whose market value changes are defined over a two-month horizon are those that in management’s judgment have historically remained very liquid during financial crises, even as the trading liquidity of most other positions and market factors materially declined.

114

OPERATIONAL RISK

Overview

Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. This includes legal risk, which is the risk of loss (including litigation costs, settlements, and regulatory fines) resulting from the failure of Citi to comply with laws, regulations, prudent ethical standards, and contractual obligations in any aspect of its businesses, but excludes strategic and reputation risks. Citi also recognizes the impact of operational risk on the reputation risk associated with Citi’s business activities. 

Operational risk is inherent in Citi’s global business activities, as well as related support functions, and can result in losses. Citi maintains a comprehensive Citi-wide risk taxonomy to classify operational risks that it faces using standardized definitions across Citi’s Operational Risk Management Framework (see discussion below). This taxonomy also supports regulatory requirements and expectations inclusive of those related to U.S. Basel III, Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), Heightened Standards for Large Financial Institutions and Dodd Frank Annual Stress Testing (DFAST). 

Citi manages operational risk consistent with the overall framework described in “Managing Global Risk—Overview” above. Citi’s goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels relative to the characteristics of its businesses, the markets in which it operates, its capital and liquidity and the competitive, economic and regulatory environment. This includes effectively managing operational risk and maintaining or reducing operational risk exposures within Citi’s operational risk appetite.

Citi’s Independent Operational Risk Management group has established a global-Operational Risk Management Framework with policies and practices for identification, measurement, monitoring, managing and reporting operational risks and the overall operating effectiveness of the internal control environment. As part of this framework, Citi has defined its operational risk appetite and established a manager’s control assessment (MCA) process for self-identification of significant operational risks, assessment of the performance of key controls and mitigation of residual risk above acceptable levels. 

Each major business segment must implement operational risk processes consistent with the requirements of this framework. This includes:

•understanding the operational risks they are exposed to;

•designing controls to mitigate identified risks;

•establishing key indicators;

•monitoring and reporting whether the operational risk exposures are in or out of their operational risk appetite;

•having processes in place to bring operational risk exposures within acceptable levels; 

•periodically estimate and aggregate the operational risks they are exposed to; and

•ensuring that sufficient resources are available to actively improve the operational risk environment and mitigate emerging risks.

Citi considers operational risks that result from the introduction of new or changes to existing products, or result from significant changes in its organizational structures, systems, processes and personnel. 

Citi has a governance structure for the oversight of operational risk exposures through Business Risk and Controls Committees (BRCCs), which include a Citigroup BRCC as well as business, functions, regional and country BRCCs. BRCCs are chaired by the individuals in the first line of defense and provide escalation channels for senior management to review operational risk exposures including breaches of operational risk appetite, key indicators, operational risk events, and control issues. Membership includes senior business and functions leadership as well as members of the second line of defense.

In addition, Independent Risk Management, including the Operational Risk Management group, works proactively with Citi’s businesses and functions to drive a strong and embedded operational risk management culture and framework across Citi. The Operational Risk Management group actively challenges business and functions implementation of the Operational Risk Management Framework requirements and the quality of operational risk management practices and outcomes.

Information about businesses’ key operational risks, historical operational risk losses and the control environment is reported by each major business segment and functional area. Citi’s operational risk profile and related information is summarized and reported to senior management, as well as to the Audit and Risk Committees of Citi’s Board of Directors by the Head of Operational Risk Management.

Operational risk is measured through Operational Risk Capital and Operational Risk Regulatory Capital for the Advanced Approaches under Basel III. Projected operational risk losses under stress scenarios are estimated as a required part of the FRB’s CCAR process. 

For additional information on Citi’s operational risks, see “Risk Factors—Operational Risk” above.

Cybersecurity Risk

Overview

Cybersecurity risk is the business risk associated with the threat posed by a cyber attack, cyber breach or the failure to protect Citi’s most vital business information assets or operations, resulting in a financial or reputational loss (for additional information, see the operational processes and systems and cybersecurity risk factors in “Risk Factors—Operational Risks” above). With an evolving threat landscape, ever-increasing sophistication of threat actor tactics, techniques and procedures, and use of new technologies to conduct financial transactions, Citi and its clients, customers and third parties are and will continue to be at risk from cyber attacks and information security incidents. Citi recognizes the significance of these risks and, therefore, leverages an intelligence-led strategy to protect against, detect and respond to, and recover from cyber attacks. Further, Citi actively participates in financial industry, government and cross-sector knowledge-sharing groups to enhance individual and collective cybersecurity preparedness and resilience. 

115

Risk Management

Citi’s technology and cybersecurity risk management program is built on three lines of defense. Citi’s first line of defense under the Office of the Chief Information Security Officer provides frontline business, operational and technical controls and capabilities to protect against cybersecurity risks, and to respond to cyber incidents and data breaches. Citi manages these threats through state-of-the-art Fusion Centers, which serve as central commands for monitoring and coordinating responses to cyber threats. The enterprise information security team is responsible for infrastructure defense and security controls, performing vulnerability assessments and third-party information security assessments, employee awareness and training programs and security incident management. In each case the team works in coordination with a network of information security officers who are embedded within the businesses and functions globally. 

Citi’s Operational Risk Management-Technology and Cyber (ORM-T/C) and Independent Compliance Risk Management-Technology and Information Security (ICRM-T) groups serve as the second line of defense, and actively evaluate, anticipate and challenge Citi’s risk mitigation practices and capabilities. Citi seeks to proactively identify

and remediate technology and cybersecurity risks before they materialize as incidents that negatively affect business operations. Accordingly, the ORM-T/C team independently challenges and monitors capabilities in accordance with Citi’s defined Technology and Cyber Risk Appetite statements. To address evolving cybersecurity risks and corresponding regulations, ORM-T/C and ICRM-T teams collectively also monitor cyber legal and regulatory requirements, identify and define emerging risks, execute strategic cyber threat assessments, perform new products and initiative reviews, perform data management risk oversight and conduct cyber risk assurance reviews (inclusive of third-party assessments). In addition, ORM-T/C employs tools and oversees and challenges metrics that are both tailored to cybersecurity 

and technology and aligned with Citi’s overall operational risk management framework to effectively track, identify and

manage risk.

Internal audit serves as the third line of defense and independently provides assurance on how effectively the organization as a whole manages cybersecurity risk. Citi also has multiple senior committees such as the Information Security Risk Committee (ISRC), which governs enterprise-level risk tolerance inclusive of cybersecurity risk.

Board Oversight

Citi’s Board of Directors provides oversight of management’s efforts to mitigate cybersecurity risk and respond to cyber incidents. The Board receives regular reports on cybersecurity and engages in discussions throughout the year with management and subject-matter experts on the effectiveness of Citi’s overall cybersecurity program. The Board also obtains updates on Citi’s inherent cybersecurity risks and Citi’s road map and progress for addressing these risks. 

Moreover, Citi’s Board and its committee members receive contemporaneous reporting on significant cyber events including response, legal obligations, and outreach and notification to regulators, and customers when needed, as well 

as guidance to management as appropriate. In 2021, the Board of Directors underwent a cyber incident tabletop exercise. Also in 2021, the Board’s Risk Management Committee approved a standalone Cybersecurity Risk Appetite Statement against which Citi’s performance is measured quarterly. For additional information on the Board’s oversight of cybersecurity risk management, see Citi’s 2022 proxy statement to be filed with the SEC in March 2022.

COMPLIANCE RISK

Compliance risk is the risk to current or projected financial condition and resilience arising from violations of laws, rules, or regulations, or from non-conformance with prescribed practices, internal policies and procedures or ethical standards. Compliance risk exposes Citi to fines, civil money penalties, payment of damages and the voiding of contracts. Compliance risk can result in diminished reputation, harm to Citi’s customers, limited business opportunities and lessened expansion potential. It encompasses the risk of noncompliance with all laws and regulations, as well as prudent ethical standards and some contractual obligations. It could also include exposure to litigation (known as legal risk) from all aspects of traditional and non-traditional banking.

Citi seeks to operate with integrity, maintain strong ethical standards and adhere to applicable policies and regulatory and legal requirements. Citi must maintain and execute a proactive Compliance Risk Management (CRM) Policy that is designed to manage compliance risk effectively across Citi, with a view to fundamentally strengthen the compliance risk management culture across the lines of defense taking into account Citi’s risk governance framework and regulatory requirements. Independent Compliance Risk Management’s (ICRM) primary objectives are to:

•Drive and embed a culture of compliance and control throughout Citi;

•Maintain and oversee an integrated CRM Policy and Compliance Risk Framework that facilitates enterprise-wide compliance with local, national or cross-border laws, rules or regulations, Citi’s internal policies, standards and procedures and relevant standards of conduct;

•Assess compliance risks and issues across product lines, functions and geographies, supported by globally consistent systems and compliance risk management processes; and

•Provide compliance risk data aggregation and reporting capabilities.

To anticipate, control and mitigate compliance risk, Citi has established the CRM Policy to achieve standardization and centralization of methodologies and processes, and to enable more consistent and comprehensive execution of compliance risk management. 

Citi has a commitment, as well as an obligation, to identify, assess and mitigate compliance risks associated with its businesses and functions. ICRM is responsible for oversight of Citi’s CRM Policy, while all businesses and global control functions are responsible for managing their compliance risks and operating within the Compliance Risk Appetite. 

Citi carries out its objectives and fulfills its responsibilities through the Compliance Risk Framework, 

116

which is composed of the following integrated key activities, to holistically manage compliance risk:

•Management of Citi’s compliance with laws, rules and regulations by identifying and analyzing changes, assessing the impact, and implementing appropriate policies, processes and controls;

•Developing and providing compliance training to ensure colleagues are aware of and understand the key laws, rules and regulations;

•Monitoring the Compliance Risk Appetite, which is articulated through qualitative compliance risk statements describing Citi’s appetite for certain types of risk and quantitative measures to monitor the Company’s compliance risk exposure;

•Monitoring and testing of compliance risks and controls in assessing conformance with laws, rules, regulations and internal policies; and

•Issue identification, escalation and remediation to drive accountability, including measurement and reporting of compliance risk metrics against established thresholds in support of the CRM Policy and Compliance Risk Appetite.

As discussed above, Citi is working to address the FRB and OCC consent orders, which include improvements to Citi’s Compliance Risk Framework and its Enterprise-wide application (for additional information regarding the consent orders, see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” above).

REPUTATION RISK

Citi’s reputation is a vital asset in building trust with its stakeholders and Citi is diligent in enhancing and protecting its reputation with its colleagues, customers, investors and regulators. To support this, Citi has developed a reputation risk framework. Under this framework, Citigroup and Citibank have implemented a risk appetite statement and related key indicators to monitor corporate activities and operations relative to our risk appetite. The framework also requires that business segments and regions escalate significant reputation risks that require review or mitigation through a Reputation Risk Committee or equivalent.

The Reputation Risk Committees, which are composed of Citi’s most senior executives, govern the process by which material reputation risks are identified, monitored, reported, managed, and escalated. The Reputation Risk Committees determine the appropriate actions to be taken in line with risk appetite and regulatory expectations, while promoting a culture of risk awareness and high standards of integrity and ethical behavior across the Company, consistent with Citi’s mission and value proposition. The Reputation Risk Committees in the business segments and regions are part of the governance infrastructure that Citi has in place to review the reputation risk posed by business activities, sales practices, product design, or perceived conflicts of interest. These committees may also raise potential reputation risks for due consideration by the Reputation Risk Committee at the corporate level. The Citigroup Reputation Risk Committee may escalate reputation risks to the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee or other appropriate committee of the Citigroup Board of Directors. 

The responsibility for enhancing and protecting Citi’s reputation is shared by all colleagues, who are guided by Citi’s Code of Conduct. Colleagues are expected to exercise sound judgment and common sense in decisions and actions. They are also expected to promptly escalate all issues that present potential reputation risk in line with policy.

STRATEGIC RISK

As discussed above, strategic risk is the risk of a sustained impact (not episodic impact) to Citi’s core strategic objectives as measured by impacts on anticipated earnings, market capitalization, or capital, arising from the external factors affecting the Company’s operating environment; as well as the risks associated with defining the strategy and executing the strategy, which are identified, measured and managed as part of the Strategic Risk Framework at the Enterprise Level. 

In this context, external factors affecting Citi’s operating environment are the economic environment, geopolitical/political landscape, industry/competitive landscape, societal trends, customer/client behavior, regulatory/legislative environment and trends related to investors/shareholders.

Citi’s Executive Management Team is responsible for the development and execution of Citi’s strategy. This strategy is translated into forward-looking plans (collectively Citi’s Strategic Plan) that are then cascaded across the organization. Citi’s Strategic Plan is presented to the board on an annual basis and is aligned with Risk Appetite thresholds and includes Top Risk identification as required by internal frameworks. It is also aligned with limit requirements for capital allocation. Governance and oversight of strategic risk is facilitated by internal committees on a group-wide basis as well as strategic committees at the ICG, GCB and regional levels.

Citi works to ensure that strategic risks are adequately considered and addressed across its various risk management activities, and that strategic risks are assessed in the context of Citi’s risk appetite. Citi conducts a top-down, bottom-up risk identification process to identify risks, including strategic risks. Business segments undertake a quarterly risk identification process to systematically identify and document all material risks faced by Citi. Independent Risk Management oversees the Risk Identification process through regular reviews and coordinates identification and monitoring of Top Risks. Independent Risk Management also manages strategic risk by monitoring risk appetite thresholds in conjunction with various strategic risk committees, which are part of the governance structure that Citi has in place to manage its strategic risks. 

For additional information on Citi’s strategic risks, see “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” above.

OTHER RISKS

LIBOR Transition Risk

The LIBOR administrator ceased publication of non-USD LIBOR and one week and two-month USD LIBOR on a representative basis on December 31, 2021, with plans to cease publication of all other USD LIBOR tenors on June 30, 2023. Regulators expect banks, including Citi, to have ceased entering into new contracts that reference USD LIBOR as a 

117

benchmark by December 31, 2021, except for limited circumstances as set out in regulatory guidance. 

Citi recognizes that a transition away from and discontinuance of LIBOR presents various risks and challenges that could significantly impact financial markets and market participants, including Citi (for information about Citi’s risks from a transition away from and discontinuation of LIBOR or any other benchmark rates, see “Risk Factors—Other Risks” above). Accordingly, Citi has continued its efforts to identify and manage its LIBOR transition risks. 

For example, Citi continues to closely monitor legislative, regulatory and other developments related to LIBOR transition matters and legislative relief. The International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) published the Interbank Offered Rate (IBOR) Fallbacks Protocol for existing IBOR derivatives transactions, which became effective in January 2021. The IBOR Fallbacks Protocol provides derivatives market participants with new fallbacks for legacy and new derivatives contracts if both counterparties adhere to the protocol or engage in bilateral amendments (see discussion below regarding Citi’s adherence to the protocol). In April 2021, legislation was adopted in New York State that provides for the use of a statutory replacement for USD LIBOR in certain New York law legacy contracts. Similar federal legislation was passed in the House of Representatives in December 2021 and is pending passage by the Senate, although there is no guarantee that the federal legislative proposal will become law. 

In addition, Citi has established a LIBOR governance and implementation program focused on identifying and addressing the impact of LIBOR transition on Citi’s clients, operational capabilities and financial contracts. The program operates globally across Citi’s businesses and functions and includes active involvement of senior management, oversight by Citi’s Asset and Liability Committee and reporting to the Risk Management Committee of Citigroup’s Board of Directors. As part of the program, Citi has continued to implement its LIBOR transition action plans and associated roadmaps under the following key workstreams: program management; transition strategy and risk management; customer management, including internal communications and training, legal/contract management and product management; financial exposures and risk management; regulatory and industry engagement; operations and technology; and finance, risk, tax and treasury. 

During 2021, Citi continued to participate in a number of working groups formed by global regulators, including the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (ARRC) convened by the FRB. These working groups promote and advance development of alternative reference rates and seek to identify and address potential challenges from any transition to such rates. Citi’s LIBOR transition action plans and associated roadmaps are intended to be consistent with the timelines recommended by these working groups. This includes the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s SOFR First Initiative, which is designed to promote derivatives trading in SOFR. Citi also continued to engage with regulators, financial accounting bodies and others on LIBOR transition matters. 

Citi’s LIBOR transition efforts include, among other things, reducing its overall exposure to LIBOR, increasing 

Citi’s virtual client communication efforts and client transition facilitation, including outreach regarding new industry-led protocols and solutions, and using alternative reference rates in certain newly issued financial instruments and products. In the past several years, Citi has issued preferred stock and benchmark debt referencing the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) and issued customer-related debt referencing SOFR and the Sterling Overnight Interbank Average Rate (SONIA), the recommended replacement rate for Sterling LIBOR. Citi has also originated and arranged loans referencing SOFR and SONIA and executed SOFR and SONIA-based derivatives contracts. Further, Citi has also been investing in its systems and infrastructure, as client activity moves away from LIBOR to alternative reference rates. Since the ARRC’s recommendation of CME Group’s Term SOFR in July 2021, Citi has focused on systems’ readiness to provide Term SOFR loan and derivatives to clients, where permitted. 

In 2021, Citi also focused on remediating existing LIBOR contracts for which publication ceased on a representative basis on December 31, 2021. Substantially all of these contracts were remediated by December 31, 2021, and Citi continues to actively engage in and track the remediation of any remaining contracts after December 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2021, Citi’s overall USD LIBOR gross notional exposure for contracts maturing after the LIBOR cessation date of June 30, 2023 was approximately $7.1 trillion, which includes approximately $4 trillion of cleared derivatives that are covered by planned Central Counterparty Clearing House (CCP) conversions, and approximately $2.4 trillion of bilateral derivatives that are covered by robust contract fallback language. The remaining exposure of approximately $0.7 trillion includes bilateral derivatives and cash products that will be addressed by 2022 contract remediation plans. 

In addition, for LIBOR contracts that have not yet been remediated, Citi continues to review the effect of relevant legislative solutions, which are expected to facilitate the transition to replacement rates. 

Climate Risk

Climate change presents immediate and long-term risks to Citi and its clients and customers, with the risks expected to increase over time. Climate risk refers to the risk of loss arising from climate change and is comprised of both physical risk and transition risk. Physical risk considers how chronic and acute climate change (e.g., increased storms, drought, fires, floods) can directly damage physical assets (e.g., real estate, crops) or otherwise impact their value or productivity. Transition risk considers how changes in policy, technology, business practices and market preferences to address climate change (e.g., carbon pricing policies, power generation shifts from fossil fuels to renewable energy) can lead to changes in the value of assets, commodities and companies.

Climate risk is an overarching risk that can act as a driver of other categories of risk, such as credit risk from obligors exposed to high climate risk, reputational risk from increased stakeholder concerns about financing high-carbon industries and operational risk from physical risks to Citi’s facilities and personnel.

Citi currently identifies climate risk as an “emerging risk” within its enterprise risk management framework. Emerging 

118

risks are risks or thematic issues that are either new to the landscape, or in the case of climate risk, existing risks that are rapidly changing or evolving in an escalating fashion, which are difficult to assess due to limited data or other uncertainties. For additional information on climate risk, see “Risk Factors—Other Risks” above.

Citi reviews factors related to climate risk under its longstanding Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) Policy, which includes a focus on climate risk related to financed projects and clients in high-carbon sectors. Cautious of the credit risk of stranded assets, as well as the reputational risks associated with the coal sector due to its high carbon emissions, Citi began a phase-down of its financing of thermal coal mining companies in 2015 and of new coal-fired power plants in 2018. As Citi’s phase-down has continued, Citi’s ESRM Policy was updated to include a prohibition on all project-related financing of new coal-fired power plants and new or expanding thermal coal mines as well as clear timetables to reduce financing of companies with high exposure to coal fired power and coal mining who do not pursue low-carbon transition in the coming years. These sector approaches allow Citi to set a comprehensive and industry-wide approach to clarify its positions, set clear expectations for its clients and help address certain climate risk driven credit risk concerns while reducing reputation risk.

Citi continues to explore and test methodologies for quantifying how climate risks could impact the individual credit profiles of its clients across various sectors. To assist in embedding climate risk assessments in its credit assessment process, Citi is developing sector-specific climate risk assessments. Such climate risk assessments are designed to supplement publicly available client disclosures and data provided from third-party vendors and facilitate conversations with clients on their most material climate risks and management plans for adaptation and mitigation. In the near term, Citi’s assessments will consider sectors that have been identified as higher climate risk by Citi’s risk identification process. This will not only help Citi better understand its clients’ businesses and climate-related risks, but will also provide a source of climate data. Citi’s net zero plan is leading to the further integration of climate risk discussions into client engagement and client selection.

Furthermore, Citi is developing globally consistent principles and approaches for managing climate risk across Citi. Climate risk will be embedded into relevant policies and processes over time.

In addition, Citi continues to participate in financial industry collaborations to develop and pilot new methodologies and approaches for measuring and assessing the potential financial risks of climate change. Citi is also closely monitoring regulatory developments on climate risk and sustainable finance, and actively engaging with regulators on these topics.

For additional information about sustainability and other ESG matters at Citi, see “Sustainability and Other ESG Matters” above.

119

Country Risk

Top 25 Country Exposures 

The following table presents Citi’s top 25 exposures by country (excluding the U.S.) as of December 31, 2021. (Including the U.S., the total exposure as of December 31, 2021 to the top 25 countries would represent approximately 98% of Citi’s exposure to all countries.) 

For purposes of the table, loan amounts are reflected in the country where the loan is booked, which is generally based on the domicile of the borrower. For example, a loan to a Chinese subsidiary of a Switzerland-based corporation will generally be categorized as a loan in China. In addition, Citi has developed regional booking centers in certain countries, 

most significantly in the United Kingdom (U.K.) and Ireland, in order to more efficiently serve its corporate customers. As an example, with respect to the U.K., only 33% of corporate loans presented in the table below are to U.K. domiciled entities (36% for unfunded commitments), with the balance of the loans predominately to European domiciled counterparties. Approximately 87% of the total U.K. funded loans and 88% of the total U.K. unfunded commitments were investment grade as of December 31, 2021. 

Trading account assets and investment securities are generally categorized based on the domicile of the issuer of the security of the underlying reference entity. For additional information on the assets included in the table, see the footnotes to the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) ICG loans reflect funded corporate loans and private bank loans, net of unearned income. As of December 31, 2021, private bank loans in the table above totaled $31.8 billion, concentrated in the U.K. ($8.8 billion), Hong Kong ($8.6 billion) and Singapore ($7.5 billion).

(2) Other funded includes other direct exposures such as accounts receivable, loans HFS, other loans in Corporate/Other and investments accounted for under the equity method.

(3) Unfunded exposure includes unfunded corporate lending commitments, letters of credit and other contingencies.

120

(4) Net mark-to-market counterparty risk on OTC derivatives and securities lending/borrowing transactions (repos). Exposures are shown net of collateral and inclusive of CVA. Includes margin loans.

(5) Investment securities include debt securities available-for-sale, recorded at fair market value, and debt securities held-to-maturity, recorded at amortized cost.

(6) Trading account assets are shown on a net basis and include issuer risk on cash products and derivative exposure where the underlying reference entity/issuer is located in that country.

Argentina

Citi operates in Argentina through its ICG businesses. As of December 31, 2021, Citi’s net investment in its Argentine operations was approximately $1.5 billion. Citi uses the U.S. dollar as the functional currency for its operations in highly inflationary countries under U.S. GAAP. Citi uses Argentina’s official market exchange rate to remeasure its net Argentine peso-denominated assets into the U.S. dollar. As of December 31, 2021, the official Argentine peso exchange rate against the U.S. dollar was 102.73.

The Central Bank of Argentina maintains certain capital and currency controls that generally restrict Citi’s ability to access U.S. dollars in Argentina and remit substantially all of its earnings from its Argentine operations. Citi’s net investment in its Argentine operations is likely to increase as Citi continues to generate net income from its Argentine franchise and the majority of its earnings cannot be remitted.

Due to the currency controls implemented by the Central Bank of Argentina, certain indirect foreign exchange mechanisms have developed that some Argentine entities may use to obtain U.S. dollars, generally at rates that are significantly higher than Argentina’s official exchange rate. Citibank Argentina is precluded from accessing these alternative mechanisms, and these exchange mechanisms cannot be used to remeasure Citi’s net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar under U.S. GAAP. Citi cannot predict future fluctuations in Argentina’s official market exchange rate or to what extent Citi may be able to access U.S. dollars at the official exchange rate in the future.

Citi economically hedges the foreign currency risk in its net Argentine peso-denominated assets to the extent possible and prudent using non-deliverable forward (NDF) derivative instruments that are primarily executed outside of Argentina. As of December 31, 2021, the international NDF market had very limited liquidity, resulting in Citi being unable to economically hedge nearly all of its Argentine peso exposure. As a result, and to the extent that Citi does not execute NDF contracts for this unhedged exposure in the future, Citi would record devaluations on its net Argentine peso‐denominated assets in earnings, without any benefit from a change in the fair value of derivative positions used to economically hedge the exposure. 

Citi continually evaluates its economic exposure to its Argentine counterparties and reserves for changes in credit risk and sovereign risk associated with its Argentine assets. Citi believes it has established appropriate allowances for credit losses on its Argentine loans, and appropriate fair value adjustments on Argentine assets and liabilities measured at fair value, for such risks under U.S. GAAP as of December 31, 2021. However, U.S. regulatory agencies may require Citi to record additional reserves in the future, increasing ICG’s cost of credit, based on the perceived country risk associated with its Argentine exposures. 

For additional information on Citi’s emerging markets risks, including those related to its Argentine exposures, see “Risk Factors” above.

Russia

Citi operates both its ICG and GCB businesses in Russia, although the Company is currently pursuing the exit of its GCB business in the country. All of Citi’s domestic operations in Russia are conducted through a subsidiary of Citibank, which uses the Russian ruble as its functional currency. Citi’s net investment in Russia was approximately $1 billion as of December 31, 2021. The majority of Citi’s net investment was hedged for foreign currency depreciation as of December 31, 2021, using forward foreign exchange contracts. Citi’s total third-party exposure was approximately $8.2 billion as of December 31, 2021. These assets primarily consisted of corporate and consumer loans, local government debt securities, reverse repurchase agreements, and cash on deposit and placements with the Bank of Russia and other financial institutions. A significant portion of Citi’s third-party exposures were funded with domestic deposit liabilities from both ICG and GCB clients. Further, Citi has approximately $1.6 billion of additional exposures to Russian counterparties that are not held on the Russian subsidiary and are not included in the $8.2 billion above.

The $5.4 billion in Russia credit and other exposures in the “Top 25 Country Exposures” table above does not include approximately $1.0 billion of cash and placements with the Bank of Russia and other financial institutions and $1.8 billion of reverse repurchase agreements with various counterparties.

Citi continues to monitor the current Russia–Ukraine geopolitical situation and economic conditions and will mitigate its exposures and risks as appropriate. For additional information, see “Risk Factors—Market-Related Risk,” “—Operational Risks” and “—Other Risks” above.

121

FFIEC—Cross-Border Claims on Third Parties and Local Country Assets

Citi’s cross-border disclosures are set forth below, based on the country exposure bank regulatory reporting guidelines of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC). The following summarizes some of the FFIEC key reporting guidelines:

•Amounts are based on the domicile of the ultimate obligor, counterparty, collateral (only including qualifying liquid collateral), issuer or guarantor, as applicable (e.g., a security recorded by a Citi U.S. entity but issued by the U.K. government is considered U.K. exposure; a loan recorded by a Citi Mexico entity to a customer domiciled in Mexico where the underlying collateral is held in Germany is considered German exposure). 

•Amounts do not consider the benefit of collateral received for secured financing transactions (i.e., repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements and securities loaned and borrowed) and are reported based on notional amounts. 

•Netting of derivative receivables and payables, reported at fair value, is permitted, but only under a legally binding netting agreement with the same specific counterparty, and does not include the benefit of margin received or hedges.

•Credit default swaps (CDS) are included based on the gross notional amount sold and purchased and do not include any offsetting CDS on the same underlying entity. 

•Loans are reported without the benefit of hedges.

Given the requirements noted above, Citi’s FFIEC cross-border exposures and total outstandings tend to fluctuate, in some cases significantly, from period to period. As an example, because total outstandings under FFIEC guidelines do not include the benefit of margin or hedges, market volatility in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and credit spreads may cause significant fluctuations in the level of total outstandings, all else being equal.

122

The tables below show each country whose total outstandings exceeded 0.75% of total Citigroup assets:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Non-bank financial institutions.

(2) Included in total outstanding.

(3) Total outstanding includes cross-border claims on third parties, as well as local country assets. Cross-border claims on third parties include cross-border loans, securities, deposits with banks and other monetary assets, as well as net revaluation gains on foreign exchange and derivative products.

(4) Commitments (not included in total outstanding) include legally binding cross-border letters of credit and other commitments and contingencies as defined by the FFIEC guidelines. The FFIEC definition of commitments includes commitments to local residents to be funded with local currency liabilities originated within the country.

(5) Credit default swaps (CDS) are not included in total outstanding. 

(6) Exposures for the United Kingdom and Germany for the December 31, 2020 period have been revised by $(5.4) billion and $4.8 billion, respectively, as compared to those previously reported, with the balance in the U.S. This revision reflects a correction in the domicile for Non-Bank Financial Institutions counterparties.

123

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES

This section contains a summary of Citi’s most significant accounting policies. Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains a summary of all of Citigroup’s significant accounting policies. These policies, as well as estimates made by management, are integral to the presentation of Citi’s results of operations and financial condition. While all of these policies require a certain level of management judgment and estimates, this section highlights and discusses the significant accounting policies that require management to make highly difficult, complex or subjective judgments and estimates at times regarding matters that are inherently uncertain and susceptible to change (see also “Risk Factors—Operational Risks” above). Management has discussed each of these significant accounting policies, the related estimates and its judgments with the Audit Committee of the Citigroup Board of Directors. 

Valuations of Financial Instruments

Citigroup holds debt and equity securities, derivatives, retained interests in securitizations, investments in private equity and other financial instruments. A substantial portion of 

these assets and liabilities is reflected at fair value on Citi’s 

Consolidated Balance Sheet as Trading account assets, Available-for-sale securities and Trading account liabilities.