PART I

Item 1.

Business.

Overview

We are a leading global media and entertainment company that creates premium content and experiences for audiences worldwide. We offer broadcast and cable television programming, innovative streaming services and digital video products, provide powerful capabilities in production, distribution and advertising solutions, and have one of the industry’s most extensive libraries of television and film titles. Our portfolio of iconic consumer brands includes Paramount+, Pluto TV, CBS, Showtime Networks, Paramount Pictures, Nickelodeon, MTV, Comedy Central and BET. Effective February 16, 2022, we are changing our name to Paramount Global, a name that represents our rich and storied history in entertainment and embraces our transition into the future.

Our global ecosystem of pay, free and premium streaming services grew significantly in 2021. Global streaming subscribers grew to 56.1 million as of December 31, 2021, an 88% increase year-over-year. We rebranded CBS All Access as Paramount+, our subscription streaming service that combines live sports, news and entertainment content, reaching 32.8 million global subscribers as of December 31, 2021. Pluto TV, our free advertising-supported streaming television (“FAST”) service, surpassed $1 billion in revenue for the year and reached 64.4 million global monthly active users (“MAUs”) for December 2021, a 49% increase year-over-year. We are investing in and scaling our streaming ecosystem through compelling content, broad distribution and international expansion.

In 2021, we demonstrated the continued breadth and depth of our content capabilities across broadcast and cable television, streaming and film. We attracted viewers domestically with sports, news and live events, including the National Football League (the “NFL”) and Union of European Football Associations (“UEFA”) games, 60 Minutes and Adele One Night Only. Hit movies included A Quiet Place Part II, which launched in theaters and on Paramount+ following a 45-day theatrical window, and PAW Patrol: The Movie and Clifford the Big Red Dog, which in the United States (“U.S.”) were released “day and date” in theaters and on Paramount+. CBS remained the most-watched network in Daytime and Late Night, and we had more top 25 original cable series among key demographics than any other cable family. We are working to leverage our successful linear content to drive growth in streaming. 1883, Taylor Sheridan’s prequel to Yellowstone, debuted in 2021 as both the most watched 

I-1

original scripted drama on Paramount+ and, as part of a special airing on Paramount Network, the highest rated cable series premiere since 2015.

From our studios to streaming, we focused on expanding our global footprint and building key partnerships in 2021. We launched Pluto TV in Italy and announced plans to launch in the Nordics in 2022. We announced a strategic partnership to launch Paramount+ on Sky platforms in certain western European countries, as well as a joint venture with Comcast to launch SkyShowtime, a new streaming service expected to be available in more than 20 European territories. We acquired a majority stake in Fox TeleColombia & Estudios TeleMexico, which, when combined with production capabilities of ViacomCBS International Studios (“VIS”) and our broadcasters Televisión Federal S.A. (“Telefe”) and Chilevisión, solidified our status as a leading global Spanish-language content creator.

Our traditional business remained strong in 2021, where affiliate revenues continued to benefit from expanded distribution and advertising revenues benefited from an improved marketplace and EyeQ, our digital advertising platform that reaches millions of full-episode monthly unique viewers in the U.S. We entered into comprehensive agreements with key distributors that included our portfolio of streaming services, in addition to continued carriage of our cable and broadcast television networks.

In 2021, we continued to execute on our commitment to divest noncore assets, including CBS’ former headquarters, commonly known as Black Rock, as well as CBS Studio Center in Los Angeles, California. And in March 2021, we completed public equity offerings in which we raised approximately $2.7 billion in net proceeds. These transactions increased our ability to invest in our strategic growth priorities, including streaming.

We continued our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion (“DE&I”) in 2021. We hosted our third annual Global Inclusion Week, a weeklong initiative featuring conversations, panels and workshops designed to ensure our workforce and culture reflect, celebrate and elevate the diversity of our audiences and communities. We also launched Content for Change, a companywide initiative designed to use the power of our content, creative supply chain and culture to counteract the narratives that enable racism, bias, stereotypes and hate. Building on our 2020 companywide Materiality Assessment and first Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) Report, in 2021 we released our second ESG Report, which included our first set of overarching goals across our three environmental, social and governance pillars. We also hosted our 25th annual Community Day, the second consecutive fully virtual event, which is a global day of community service focused on causes and issues that resonate with our employees and audiences.

In 2021, we operated through the following segments:

•TV Entertainment. Our TV Entertainment segment consisted of the CBS Television Network, our domestic broadcast network; CBS Studios and CBS Media Ventures, the segment’s television production and syndication operations; CBS Sports Network, CBS Sports’ 24-hour cable channel; CBS Stations, our owned broadcast television stations in the U.S.; and a number of streaming services, including our direct-to-consumer subscription streaming service, Paramount+ (in the U.S.), and several CBS-branded streaming services, including CBS News Streaming and CBS Sports HQ. TV Entertainment accounted for approximately 44% of our consolidated revenues in 2021 (after the elimination of intercompany revenues).

•Cable Networks. Our Cable Networks segment consisted of a portfolio of premium and basic cable networks, including SHOWTIME, BET, Nickelodeon, MTV, Comedy Central, Paramount Network and Smithsonian Channel; a number of direct-to-consumer streaming services, including Showtime Networks’ premium subscription streaming service (“SHOWTIME OTT”) and Pluto TV, our FAST service; and ViacomCBS Networks International (“VCNI”), which operates international extensions of Paramount+, Pluto TV and our Cable Networks brands and services, our international free-to-air networks and VIS, which produces content for our brands and streaming services, as well as for third parties. Cable Networks accounted for approximately 47% of our consolidated revenues in 2021 (after the elimination of intercompany revenues).

I-2

•Filmed Entertainment. Our Filmed Entertainment segment consisted of Paramount Pictures, Paramount Players, Paramount Animation, Paramount Television Studios and Miramax. Filmed Entertainment accounted for approximately 9% of our consolidated revenues in 2021 (after the elimination of intercompany revenues).

During the fourth quarter of 2020, we entered into an agreement to sell Simon & Schuster, which was previously reported as our Publishing segment. Simon & Schuster is presented as a discontinued operation in our consolidated financial statements for all periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Notes 1 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements.

Beginning in 2022, primarily as a result of our increased strategic focus on our direct-to-consumer businesses, we made certain changes to how we manage our businesses and allocate resources that resulted in a change to our operating segments. Accordingly, beginning in the first quarter of 2022, we expect to report results based on the following segments:

•TV Media. Our TV Media segment consists of our historical TV Entertainment and Cable Networks segments, except that it no longer includes their corresponding direct-to-consumer streaming services (now part of our Direct-to-Consumer segment) as well as Nickelodeon Studio (now part of our Filmed Entertainment segment), and now includes Paramount Television Studios (formerly part of our historical Filmed Entertainment segment).

•Direct-to-Consumer. Our Direct-to-Consumer segment consists of our portfolio of pay, free and premium streaming services, including Paramount+, Pluto TV, SHOWTIME OTT, BET+ and Noggin.

•Filmed Entertainment. Our Filmed Entertainment segment consists of our historical Filmed Entertainment segment, except that it no longer includes Paramount Television Studios (now part of our TV Media segment) and now includes Nickelodeon Studio (formerly part of our historical Cable Networks segment).

We were organized as a Delaware corporation in 1986. In December 2019, we changed our name to ViacomCBS Inc. in connection with the merger of Viacom Inc. (“Viacom”) and CBS Corporation (“CBS”) (the “Merger”). Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this document to “ViacomCBS,” “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean ViacomCBS Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries, to “CBS” mean CBS and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Merger and to “Viacom” mean Viacom and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Merger. Effective February 16, 2022, we are changing our name to Paramount Global. 

Our principal offices are located at 1515 Broadway, New York, New York 10036. Our telephone number is (212) 258-6000 and our website is www.ViacomCBS.com. Information included on or accessible through our website is not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10‑K.

We have two classes of common stock, Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, both of which are listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. Owners of our Class A Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share. Our Class B Common Stock does not have voting rights. As of December 31, 2021, National Amusements, Inc. (“NAI”), a closely held corporation that owns and operates movie screens in the U.S., the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) and South America and manages additional movie screens in South America, directly or indirectly owned approximately 77.4% of our voting Class A Common Stock, and approximately 9.7% of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on a combined basis. NAI is not subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

I-3

Our Segments in 2021

TV Entertainment

TV Entertainment consisted of the CBS Television Network, our domestic broadcast network; CBS Studios and CBS Media Ventures, the segment’s television production and syndication operations; CBS Sports Network, CBS Sports’ 24-hour cable channel; CBS Stations, our owned broadcast television stations in the U.S.; and a number of streaming services, including our direct-to-consumer subscription streaming service, Paramount+ (in the U.S.), and several CBS-branded streaming services, including CBS News Streaming and CBS Sports HQ.

TV Entertainment’s revenues were generated primarily from advertising; affiliate revenues comprised of fees received from television stations affiliated with the CBS Television Network (“reverse compensation”), fees for authorizing multichannel video programming distributors’ (“MVPDs”) and third-party live television streaming services’ (“virtual MVPDs” or “vMVPDs”) carriage of our owned television stations; streaming revenues, principally comprised of advertising and subscription revenues generated by the segment’s streaming services and from digital video advertisements on our websites and in our video content on third-party platforms; and the licensing and distribution of our content and other rights. In 2021, TV Entertainment advertising, licensing and other, affiliate and streaming generated approximately 41%, 25%, 22% and 12%, respectively, of the segment’s total revenues. TV Entertainment generated approximately 44%, 41% and 43% of our consolidated revenues in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively (after the elimination of intercompany revenues).

Paramount+

Paramount+, our digital subscription video on-demand and live streaming service, combines live sports, news and entertainment content. Paramount+ features an expansive catalogue of original series, hit shows and popular movies across every genre from our brands and production studios, including CBS, BET, Comedy Central, MTV, Nickelodeon, Paramount Network, the Smithsonian Channel and Paramount Pictures, and from third parties.

Domestically, Paramount+ is home to livestreamed CBS Sports programming, including golf, football, auto racing and basketball. A destination for soccer fans, Paramount+ features more than 2,000 live and on-demand matches each year, including select matches from UEFA, Italy’s Serie A, and the National Women’s Soccer League (“NWSL”). Paramount+ also enables subscribers to stream local CBS Stations live across the U.S. in addition to other live channels, including CBS News Streaming for 24-hour news, CBS Sports HQ for sports news and analysis, and ET Live for entertainment coverage. Domestic highlights in 2021 include A Quiet Place Part II, Clifford the Big Red Dog, Mayor of Kingstown, Yellowstone prequel 1883, PAW Patrol, a variety of content from the Star Trek universe, a pair of original South Park movies and the NFL.

Paramount+ is available in two formats in the U.S.: Premium, an advertising-free (with the exception of livestreamed content) offering that includes all the benefits of Paramount+ for a monthly fee; and Essential, an advertising-supported offering available for a lower monthly fee that includes the NFL but does not include livestreamed local CBS Stations content.

Internationally, Paramount+ is home to hit movies, including titles from Paramount Pictures, as well as scripted dramas from SHOWTIME, Paramount Television Studios, CBS Studios and a robust offering of premium local content from VIS and third parties. International highlights in 2021 include Parot, Before I Forget, To Catch a Thief and 100 Days to Fall in Love.

I-4

CBS Television Network

The CBS Television Network (the “CBS Network”), through CBS Entertainment, CBS News and CBS Sports, distributes entertainment programming, news, public affairs broadcasts and sports. Network content also is available on the internet, including through: CBS.com, CBSSports.com and related software applications (“apps”); our streaming services, such as Paramount+, CBS News Streaming and Pluto TV; and MVPDs and vMVPDs.

CBS Entertainment acquires or develops and schedules the programming on the CBS Network, which includes primetime comedies and dramas, reality, specials, kids’ programs, daytime dramas, game shows and late night. The CBS Network’s top-rated series include NCIS, The Late Show with Stephen Colbert and The Price is Right.

CBS News operates a worldwide news organization, providing the CBS Network and CBS News Radio with regularly scheduled news and public affairs broadcasts, including 60 Minutes, 48 Hours, CBS Evening News, CBS Mornings, CBS Sunday Morning and Face the Nation.

CBS Sports broadcasts on the CBS Network include certain regular season games from the NFL’s American Football Conference (“AFC”) and National Football Conference, as well as postseason AFC wild card playoff, AFC divisional playoff and championship games, and, on a rotating basis with other networks, the Super Bowl; the National Collegiate Athletic Association’s (the “NCAA”) Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament, which we also broadcast on a rotating basis with other networks, and marquee regular-season college basketball games, including conference championship games from the Big Ten, Mountain West, Atlantic 10 and Missouri Valley; regular-season college football games, including games from the Southeastern Conference; PGA Tour golf tournaments; the Masters; the PGA Championship; and certain games from the UEFA Champions League, including the semifinals and finals.

The CW, a broadcast network and our joint venture with Warner Bros. Entertainment, airs programming targeting younger viewers. Eight of our owned television stations are affiliates of The CW.

CBS Studios

CBS Studios is a leading content supplier that produces series across broadcast television, cable and streaming. CBS Studios maintains an extensive library of intellectual property, including the genre-defining and ever-growing Star Trek universe. CBS Studios’ broadcast television productions include Blue Bloods, CSI: Vegas and the FBI and NCIS franchises for the CBS Network. In cable, CBS Studios productions include Your Honor and The Man Who Fell to Earth for SHOWTIME. Streaming productions include the Star Trek franchise, The Good Fight, Evil, Seal Team and Why Women Kill for Paramount+; Dead to Me for Netflix; and Carpool Karaoke: The Series and Swagger for Apple TV+. CBS Studios also produces award-winning late night and daytime talk shows, such as The Late Show with Stephen Colbert, The Late Late Show with James Corden and The Talk. CBS Studios also develops, produces and distributes local language and international content originating outside of the U.S., with series in the U.K., Europe, the Middle East, Australia and Asia.

CBS Media Ventures

CBS Media Ventures (“CMV”) produces or distributes first-run syndicated daily and weekly programming, across various dayparts and genres, including talk shows, court shows, game shows and newsmagazines. First-run syndication is original series programming licensed on a market-by-market basis to television stations for exhibition on local broadcast television and streaming. Examples of CMV’s first-run programming include The Dr. Phil Show, Entertainment Tonight, Jeopardy!, Wheel of Fortune, Rachael Ray and The Drew Barrymore Show. CMV also handles the domestic distribution for exhibition on television and streaming services of content produced by CBS Studios, after its initial exhibition on broadcast television (“off-network syndicated programming”). Off-network syndicated programming and first-run syndicated programming distributed domestically can be sold in successive sales windows, which may occur on an exclusive or nonexclusive basis. 

I-5

CMV engages in national advertising and integrated marketing sales for the first-run and off-network programming it distributes, as well as serving as the national advertising sales agent for other major syndicators. CMV also operates and distributes Dabl, a multiplatform, advertiser-supported lifestyle network.

CBS Sports Network

The CBS Sports Network is CBS Sports’ 24-hour cable channel that provides a diverse slate of sports and related content. The network televises live professional, amateur and college events, including Division I college football, basketball, hockey and lacrosse, certain games from the NWSL, certain men’s and women’s international soccer games, including certain FIFA 2022 World Cup Concacaf qualifiers, FIFA 2023 Women’s World Cup qualifiers, UEFA Champions League games and Scottish Professional Football League games. In addition, the network showcases a variety of original programming, including documentaries, features and studio shows, highlighted by NFL Monday QB, That Other Pre-Game Show (TOPS), Time to Schein and a first of its kind all-female panel sports talk show, We Need to Talk. CBS Sports Network also provides ancillary coverage for CBS Sports relating to major events, such as the NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament, the Masters and the PGA Championship, and for SHOWTIME relating to SHOWTIME Championship Boxing.

CBS Stations

CBS Stations consists of our 29 owned broadcast television stations, all of which operate under licenses granted by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”). Licensees must seek to renew each license every eight years. Our stations are located in the six largest, and 15 of the top 20, television markets in the U.S. We own multiple stations within the same designated market area (“DMA”) in 10 major markets, including New York, Los Angeles and Philadelphia. Our stations enable us to reach a wide audience within and across geographically diverse markets in the U.S. The stations broadcast news (including station-produced news), public affairs, sports and other programming to serve their local markets and most offer CBS, The CW or MyNetworkTV (a national broadcast service that provides syndicated programming, including series from our library, during primetime to stations across the country) programming and syndicated programming. The stations also broadcast free, advertiser-supported, digital channels using available broadcast spectrum, such as Dabl, Fave TV and Start TV (a national entertainment program service featuring classic television content focused on female audiences, which is our joint venture with Weigel Broadcasting). Local versions of CBS News Streaming offer local news from certain of our owned stations. Our stations have local websites that promote the stations’ programming.

Television Stations and Local Websites and Versions of CBS News Streaming

The following table sets forth information regarding our owned television stations and related local websites and versions of CBS News Streaming, as of February 14, 2022, within U.S. television markets:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

I-6

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Television market (DMA) rankings based on Nielsen Media Research Local Market Universe Estimates (September 2021).

(2) Our television stations’ websites and the local versions of CBS New Streaming feature and promote the stations’ programming and provide news, traffic, weather, entertainment and sports information, among other services for their local communities.

(3) KCCW-TV is operated as a satellite station of WCCO-TV.

(4) WBXI-CA is a Class A low power television station. Class A low power television stations do not implicate the FCC’s ownership rules.

Cable Networks

Cable Networks consisted of a portfolio of premium and basic cable networks comprised of SHOWTIME, The Movie Channel, Flix, BET, Nickelodeon, MTV, Comedy Central, Paramount Network, Smithsonian Channel, VH1, CMT, Pop TV, Logo and TV Land; a number of direct-to-consumer subscription streaming services — SHOWTIME OTT, Showtime Networks’ premium streaming service, Noggin, Nickelodeon’s preschool streaming service, and BET+, a streaming service focused on the Black audience; and Pluto TV, our FAST service.

Cable Networks also included VCNI, which operates international extensions of Paramount+, Pluto TV and our Cable Networks brands and services, our international free-to-air networks, which include Channel 5 in the U.K., Telefe in Argentina, Network 10 in Australia and Chilevisión in Chile, and VIS, which produces content for our brands and streaming services, as well as for third parties.

Cable Networks’ revenues were generated primarily from affiliate revenues comprised of fees from MVPDs and vMVPDs for carriage of our cable networks; advertising; streaming revenues, principally comprised of advertising and subscription revenues generated by the segment’s streaming services and from digital video advertisements on our websites and in our video content on third-party platforms; and the licensing of our content and other rights. In 2021, Cable Networks affiliate, advertising, streaming and licensing and other revenues 

I-7

generated approximately 39%, 28%, 19% and 14%, respectively, of the segment’s total revenues. Cable Networks generated approximately 47%, 50% and 46% of our consolidated revenues in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively (after the elimination of intercompany revenues).

Pluto TV

Pluto TV is a leading FAST service in the U.S., delivering hundreds of live linear channels and thousands of titles on-demand to 64.4 million global MAUs for December 2021. Pluto TV curates a diverse lineup of channels, in partnership with nearly 400 global media companies. Categories cover a wide array of genres, including movies, television series, including classic television, sports, news and opinion, reality, crime, comedy, home and DIY, explore, gaming, anime, music, kids and local programming. Pluto TV en español delivers over 50 Spanish-language channels reflecting the rich tapestry of the U.S. Hispanic community. Pluto TV was awarded the 2021 Corporate Leadership in Hispanic Programming award by Broadcasting & Cable, Multichannel News and Next Media. Pluto TV can be accessed and streamed across connected television devices, mobile and the internet. Pluto TV’s growing global footprint extends across three continents and 26 countries.

SHOWTIME

Our three premium subscription cable networks in the U.S. are SHOWTIME, which offers original scripted and unscripted series, movies, documentaries and docuseries, sports, comedy and special events; The Movie Channel, which offers a variety of movies and related programming; and Flix, which primarily offers movies from the last several decades. SHOWTIME OTT is Showtime Networks’ premium subscription streaming service. Showtime Networks also includes SHOWTIME Sports, a premium destination for live combat sports, including championship boxing, Bellator, a leading global mixed martial arts organization, and culturally relevant sports documentaries and original series. Highlights in 2021 include new seasons of The Chi and Billions, the final season of Shameless, the return of Dexter in the limited series Dexter: New Blood, new dramas American Rust and Yellowjackets, as well as new late-night variety series Ziwe. SHOWTIME is also home to City on a Hill, The L Word: Generation Q, Your Honor and unscripted series Desus & Mero, Couples Therapy, The Circus and the news series Vice. 

BET

BET is a leading provider of premium entertainment, music, news, digital and public affairs content for Black audiences. BET linear can be seen in the U.S., Canada, Brazil, the Caribbean, the U.K., sub-Saharan Africa and France. BET is one of the most well-known Black consumer brands in the world, with multiplatform extensions, including BET Studios, a studio venture that provides equity ownership to Black creators; BET Digital, BET’s interactive arm; BET Her, a network targeting the African-American woman; BET Music Networks; BET Home Entertainment; BET Live, BET’s events and experience business; and BET International, which operates BET around the globe. In 2021, BET aired a diverse roster of social justice content, including Disrupt & Dismantle with Soledad O’ Brien, COVID-19 Vaccine and The Black Community: A Tyler Perry Special, and, as part of our Content for Change initiative, Bars and Ballads for George Floyd, Justice Now: Race & Reckoning and Justice Now: The Way Forward. Other highlights include Twenties, Twenties After Show With B. Scott, Games People Play and new seasons of Tyler Perry’s original series The Oval, Sistas, House of Payne and Assisted Living. BET’s tentpole events are the BET Awards, the BET Hip Hop Awards and the NAACP Image Awards.

BET+, our joint venture with Tyler Perry Studios, is a leading subscription streaming service for the Black community, with thousands of hours of movies, television, stand-up specials, stage plays and more. BET+ is home to exclusive originals from leading Black creators such as Tracy Oliver’s First Wives Club; Tyler Perry’s Ruthless and Bruh; Carl Weber’s The Family Business; and Will Packer’s Bigger; American Gangster: Trap Queens; All The Queen’s Men; The Ms. Pat Show; and Sacrifice. 

I-8

Kids & Family Entertainment Group

The Kids & Family Entertainment Group oversees our global strategy and business operations for our kids and family brands and content across linear and in streaming, through television programming, consumer products, location-based experiences, publishing and feature films. The group’s 2021 highlights on Paramount+ include The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge on the Run; the SpongeBob spinoff, Kamp Koral; the new iCarly series; and PAW Patrol: The Movie.

Nickelodeon

Nickelodeon, now in its 42nd year, is one of the most globally recognized and widely distributed multimedia entertainment brands for kids and family. Nickelodeon has been the number-one-rated advertising-supported basic cable network for 26 consecutive years among kids 2 to 11. Nickelodeon features leading original and licensed kids’ series across animation, live-action and preschool genres. Nickelodeon brands include Nick Jr., Nick at Nite, TeenNick, Nicktoons and Nick Music. Domestic highlights in 2021 include SpongeBob SquarePants, PAW Patrol, The Loud House, The Casagrandes, Tyler Perry’s Young Dylan, Danger Force and Blue’s Clues & You!. International highlights include Goldie’s Oldies, a U.K. originated live action comedy series; Sharkdog, the Nickelodeon produced Netflix original animated series; and Spyders, Nickelodeon’s first original coproduction with Ananey Studios, our Israeli content producer and subscription television provider.

Noggin, Nickelodeon’s preschool subscription streaming service, features over 1,000 library episodes, interactive videos and short-form educational content. In partnership with Paramount, Nickelodeon Movies produces branded films based on some of Nickelodeon’s most iconic franchises and characters. Nickelodeon is a key part of our global consumer products business. In 2021, we launched a licensing partnership with global toy brand Melissa & Doug to deliver PAW Patrol and Blue’s Clues and You! cobranded toys. Nickelodeon also licenses its brands for recreation and other location-based experiences such as hotels and theme parks, and in 2021 opened Nickelodeon Hotels & Resorts Riviera Maya, in partnership with Karisma Hotels & Resorts and Grupo Lomas.

Awesomeness

Awesomeness creates content focused on the global Gen Z audience through its digital publishing, film and television studio divisions. Awesomeness’ original, award-winning content includes To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before, Trinkets and Pen15.

MTV Entertainment Group

MTV Entertainment Group connects with audiences through nine iconic brands — MTV, Comedy Central, VH1, CMT, Pop, Logo, Smithsonian, Paramount Network and TV Land — and MTV Entertainment Studios, which produces award-winning series, movies and documentary films for Paramount+ and third-party streaming services.

MTV

MTV is an iconic youth entertainment brand that is home to notable franchises such as The Challenge, the Shores (Jersey Shore Family Vacation, Floribama Shore, Geordie Shore, Acapulco Shore, Rio Shore and Warsaw Shore), Teen Mom (Teen Mom OG, Teen Mom Young and Pregnant and Teen Mom 2) and Ridiculousness (Messyness and Deliciousness). MTV Documentary Films’ 2021 slate included the Academy Award-shortlisted, Emmy and Peabody-Award winning 76 Days. MTV’s signature live event — the MTV Video Music Awards — returned in 2021 along with the MTV Europe Music Awards and the MTV Movie and TV Awards.

Comedy Central

Comedy Central is a leading destination for all things comedy — from adult animation to stand-up to topical shows — providing viewers access to a world of funny, provocative and relevant content. Highlights for 2021 

I-9

include the South Park Pandemic and South ParQ Vaccination specials, The Daily Show with Trevor Noah, Tha God’s Honest Truth with Charlamagne Tha God, Awkwafina is Nora From Queens, Roy Wood Jr., Imperfect Messenger and the original holiday movies A Clüsterfünke Christmas and Hot Mess Holiday.

Paramount Network

Paramount Network is a premium entertainment destination and home to Yellowstone, cable’s hit co-created by Taylor Sheridan. Yellowstone serves as the launchpad for new original series from Taylor Sheridan on Paramount+, including Mayor of Kingstown and 1883, the Yellowstone prequel that premiered at the end of 2021.

Smithsonian Channel

Smithsonian Channel is the home of popular genres such as air and space, travel, history, science, nature and pop culture. Highlights for 2021 include the series Aerial America, America in Color, America’s Hidden Stories, Apollo’s Moon Shot, The Pacific War in Color and Air Disasters, as well as critically-acclaimed specials Black in Space: Breaking the Color Barrier and Cher & The Loneliest Elephant.

ViacomCBS Networks International

VCNI operates international extensions of Paramount+, Pluto TV and our Cable Networks brands and services, our international free-to-air broadcast networks, and VIS, which produces content for our brands and streaming services, as well as for third parties. VCNI provides distribution and advertising solutions for partners on five continents and across more than 180 countries. Viacom18 is our joint venture in India, whose operations include COLORS, a Hindi-language general entertainment pay television channel, and Viacom18 Studios, a filmed entertainment business.

ViacomCBS International Studios

One of the leading global producers of international content, VIS produces content for our brands and platforms, including Paramount+, Nickelodeon, MTV, Comedy Central, Channel 5, Network 10, Telefe, Ananey, Porta Dos Fundos and Chilevisión, as well as for third parties. A leading global Spanish-language content creator, VIS’ genres include kids, young adult, live action and animation, soap operas, dramas, short- and long-form comedy, feature films, unscripted reality and social impact documentaries. In 2021, we launched VIS Social Impact as part of our Content for Change social impact initiative.

Free-to-Air Networks

VCNI operates a number of free-to-air networks around the world. Network 10 is a major free-to-air broadcast network in Australia. Network 10’s brands include 10, 10 Bold, 10 Peach, 10 Shake and 10 Play, and its programming includes MasterChef Australia, Australian Survivor and I’m A Celebrity…Get Me Out of Here!. Channel 5 is a free-to-air public service broadcaster (PSB) in the U.K. Channel 5’s brands include 5Star, 5USA and 5Select, My5 and Milkshake, and its programming includes All Creatures Great and Small and Our Yorkshire Farm. Telefe is a leading free-to-air broadcast network in Argentina. Telefe’s brands include Telefe, Telefe Noticias, Mi Telefe, Telefe Internacional and Telefe Channels on Pluto TV, and its programming includes Telefe Noticias, its flagship newscast, MasterChef Celebrity, Bake Off, The Voice and top scripted and non-scripted content. Chilevisión is a leading free-to-air television network in Chile. Chilevisión’s programming includes ¿Quién es la Máscara?, Pasapalabra, Podemos Hablar, La Divina Comida and El Discípulo del Chef.

I-10

Filmed Entertainment

Filmed Entertainment consisted of Paramount Pictures, Paramount Players, Paramount Animation, Paramount Television Studios and Miramax. Paramount produces franchise live-action and animated films and genre films for specific audiences and releases its films in various markets around the world theatrically, on streaming services, including Paramount+, through transactional home entertainment offerings, on television, and through various other media.

Filmed Entertainment’s revenues were generated primarily from the release or distribution of films theatrically, transactional home entertainment, the licensing of film and television product to streaming services, including Paramount+, broadcast and cable television networks and other digital services, and other ancillary activities. Our theatrical revenues in 2020 and 2021 were negatively impacted by the continued closure or reduction in capacity of movie theaters as a result of COVID‑19. We delayed certain planned 2020 and 2021 theatrical releases, licensed others to Paramount+ or third-party streaming services, and released several films theatrically, including A Quiet Place Part II, Snake Eyes: G.I. Joe Origins, PAW Patrol: The Movie and Clifford the Big Red Dog. In 2021, Filmed Entertainment licensing and other and theatrical revenues generated approximately 92% and 8%, respectively, of the segment’s total revenues. Filmed Entertainment generated approximately 9%, 9% and 11% of our consolidated revenues in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively (after the elimination of intercompany revenues).

Paramount Pictures

Paramount Pictures is a major global producer and distributor of filmed entertainment and has an extensive library consisting of over 1,200 film titles produced by Paramount and has acquired rights to nearly 2,900 additional films and a number of television programs. Paramount is home to a number of successful franchises such as Mission: Impossible, Transformers, Star Trek, A Quiet Place and Paranormal Activity. Paramount’s library includes Academy Award winners, including Titanic, Braveheart, Forrest Gump, The Godfather, The Godfather Part II and Wings, which won the first ever Academy Award for Best Picture in 1929. The Paramount library also includes Academy Award nominees such as Arrival, Fences, The Big Short, Selma and The Wolf of Wall Street, and classics such as The Ten Commandments, Breakfast at Tiffany’s and Sunset Boulevard. Paramount’s 2021 theatrical releases included A Quiet Place Part II, Snake Eyes: G.I. Joe Origins, PAW Patrol: The Movie and Clifford the Big Red Dog.

Paramount Players

Paramount Players is committed to creating genre films from unique, contemporary voices and properties, as well as drawing from Paramount’s rich library of content. Paramount Players also produces films for initial release on Paramount+, including Paranormal Activity: Next of Kin, which was released in 2021.

Paramount Animation

Paramount Animation develops and produces top-quality animated films. Paramount Animation coproduced The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge on the Run, which was digitally released domestically simultaneously on premium video on demand and Paramount+ in March 2021. Paramount Animation also produced Rumble, which was released on Paramount+ in the U.S. in December 2021.

Paramount Television Studios

Paramount Television Studios develops and finances a wide range of television content across all platforms for distribution worldwide. Paramount Television Studios’ productions include American Gigolo for Showtime 

I-11

Networks; Made For Love and Station Eleven for HBO Max; Shantaram, Defending Jacob and Home Before Dark for Apple TV+; Tom Clancy’s Jack Ryan for Amazon; The Haunting of Bly Manor for Netflix; and Catch-22 for Hulu.

Miramax

Miramax, a consolidated joint venture with beIN Media Group, is a global film and television studio with an extensive library of content. We have exclusive, long-term rights to distribute Miramax’s library of more than 650 titles, which includes Pulp Fiction, Shakespeare in Love, Good Will Hunting, No Country for Old Men and Scary Movie. We also have certain rights to coproduce, co-finance and/or distribute new film and television projects with Miramax.

Film Production, Distribution and Financing

We produce many of the films we release and also acquire films for distribution from third parties. In some cases, we co-finance and/or co-distribute films with third parties, including other studios. We also enter into film-specific financing and multipicture financing arrangements from time to time under which third parties participate in the financing of the costs of a film or group of films in exchange for an economic participation and a partial copyright interest. We distribute films worldwide or in select territories in various media and may engage third-party distributors for certain films in certain territories. 

Domestically, we generally market and distribute our own theatrical and home entertainment releases. Internationally, we distribute theatrical releases through our international affiliates or, in territories where we have no operating presence, through United International Pictures, our joint venture with Universal Studios, or other third-party distributors. For home entertainment releases, DVD and Blu-ray discs are distributed internationally by local licensees. We also license films and television shows domestically and/or internationally to a variety of platforms.

Competition

All of our businesses operate in highly competitive environments, and compete for creative talent and intellectual property, as well as for audiences and distribution of our content.

We compete with a variety of media, technology and entertainment companies that have substantial resources to produce, acquire and distribute content around the world, including broadcast networks, basic and premium cable networks, streaming services, film and television studios, production groups, independent producers and syndicators, television stations and television station groups. We compete with other content creators for creative talent including producers, directors, actors and writers, as well as for new program ideas and intellectual property and for the acquisition of popular programming.

Our businesses also face significant competition for audiences from various sources. We compete for audiences for our films and television content with releases from other film studios, television producers and streaming services, as well as with other forms of entertainment and consumer spending outlets. We also compete for audiences and advertising revenues primarily with other broadcast and cable television networks; streaming services; social media platforms; websites, apps and other online experiences; radio programming; and print media. In addition, our television businesses face increasing competition from technologies providing digital audio and visual content in ways that allow audiences to consume content of their choosing while avoiding traditional commercial advertising. Moreover, our businesses face competition from the many other entertainment options available to consumers including video games, sports, travel and outdoor recreation.

We also face competition for distribution of our content. Our television businesses compete for distribution of our program services (and receipt of related fees) with other broadcast networks, cable networks and programmers. The CBS Network competes with other broadcast networks to secure affiliations with independently owned 

I-12

television stations to ensure the effective distribution of network programming in the U.S. We also compete with studios and other producers of entertainment content for distribution on third-party platforms.

For additional information regarding competition, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our businesses operate in industries that are highly competitive.”

Environmental, Social and Governance Strategy

We believe the media and entertainment industry plays an important role in shaping culture and conversations. We take this role seriously and are committed to advancing and strengthening our approach to issues, opportunities and risks related to ESG matters to help serve our stockholders, employees, partners, audiences and the communities in which we operate, as well as to enhance our business. Our ESG strategy is centered on an understanding of our biggest opportunities and risks. 

We organize our ESG work into three pillars: (1) On-Screen Content & Social Impact, (2) Workforce & Culture and (3) Sustainable Production & Operations. On-Screen Content & Social Impact addresses the opportunities and responsibilities we have to represent, inform and influence through our content and brands. Workforce & Culture focuses on our efforts to recruit and retain the best employees, treat contractors and partners well, and foster an environment where people feel welcome and safe. Sustainable Production & Operations addresses the environmental and social impacts of our operations and facilities, film and television productions and other activities.

Building on our 2020 companywide Materiality Assessment and first ESG Report, in 2021 we released our second ESG Report, which is available on our website, and included our first set of overarching goals for each of these pillars to help focus our efforts and assess our progress. We are committed to continuing to identify, measure, map and report on the ESG impact of our global operations.

ESG Governance

Our ESG efforts are a companywide commitment led by a dedicated ESG team that oversees day-to-day strategy and implementation. Our ESG team works closely with our ESG Council, a cross-functional team of senior leadership and subject matter experts spanning our brands, legal, investor relations, global inclusion, human resources, finance, real estate and environmental health and safety, to guide our strategy and reporting and help spread and instill our ESG values across the Company. The ESG team works in close collaboration with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and other senior executives who together make up our ESG Steering Committee. These leaders are actively involved in reviewing and refining our ESG strategies, programs and policies. The ESG team regularly updates the Nominating and Governance Committee of our Board of Directors, which, pursuant to its charter, oversees and monitors significant issues impacting our culture and reputation, as well as our handling of ESG issues.

Human Capital Management

We aim to build a culture that attracts and retains the best employees and a workplace where people feel welcome, safe and inspired to bring their whole self to work.

As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 22,965 full- and part-time employees in 37 countries worldwide and had approximately 4,300 project-based staff on our payroll. We also use temporary employees in the ordinary course of our business.

Our human capital management strategy is intended to address the areas described below, and additional information can be found in our ESG Report.

I-13

A Culture of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

We seek to mold a companywide culture built on our core values and anchored in a dynamic and proactive approach to DE&I through a range of partnerships, collaborations, programs and initiatives, some of which are described below.

•Many of our brands maintain inclusivity councils to address their DE&I activities and the DE&I challenges in their businesses.

•We partner with hundreds of diversity-focused institutions globally that are committed to supporting women, BIPOC and LGBTQ+ individuals, veterans and/or persons with disabilities. We have placed a particular focus on organizations advancing the causes of racial justice, anti-hate and social equity.

•We sponsor internal and external professional development programs and campus-to-career initiatives aimed at underrepresented groups.

•Our job postings reach an expansive network that includes more than 60 diversity-focused job boards. We use third-party technology to identify and remove biasing language from our job descriptions.

•We sponsor eight active employee-led Employee Resource Groups (“ERGs”) with 53 chapters in 19 locations worldwide. More than half of our employees are members of these employee-led groups. Our ERGs provide support for certain business and corporate initiatives.

•Our CEO has signed onto the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion pledge and the Company was a founding signatory for Management Leadership for Tomorrow’s (“MLT”) Black Equity at Work Certification Program (“BEW”). The MLT BEW is a third-party validation program that aims to drive measurable progress in improving representation and racial equity in the workplace.

•Of our U.S. employees, as of December 31, 2021, approximately 49% were female and approximately 39% self-identified as part of a racial or ethnic minority group. Of our U.S. employees with Vice President titles and above, as of December 31, 2021, approximately 49% were female and approximately 28% self-identified as part of a racial or ethnic minority group. 

•In 2021, we set new goals to help accelerate our performance on key DE&I objectives, including a target global hire and promotion rate for female Senior Vice Presidents and above and a target U.S. hire and promotion rate for ethnically diverse Vice Presidents and above.

Preventing Harassment and Discrimination

We remain committed to building a work environment free of harassment and discrimination so that our employees can focus on doing their best work. We have enacted policies addressing harassment, discrimination and other behaviors that could create a hostile workplace, some of which are described below.

•Our Business Conduct Statement provides employees with clear examples of harassment and discrimination and guidance on how to create a safe and inclusive environment for all. We make annual trainings on sexual harassment, discrimination and retaliation prevention available to all employees. 

•We monitor employee diversity data trends — including the promotion rates of women and ethnically diverse employees compared to their male or white peers, respectively — and watch for any patterns that might suggest discrimination or unconscious bias so that we can seek to address them.

I-14

•We require that employees report any incidents of harassment and discrimination that they witness. Among other ways, employees can report incidents of harassment or discrimination using our anonymous third-party managed complaint and reporting hotline, called OPENLINE.

Employee Attraction, Retention and Training

Our training, mentoring and career mobility programs embody our culture of DE&I as we recruit, retain and engage our employees. We strive to create an inclusive culture in which our employees and talent feel supported, heard and understood and in which employees of all backgrounds feel like they belong and have the opportunity to thrive. Some of these programs are described below.

•We offer a broad spectrum of learning opportunities for our employees, including leadership-specific training for employees who are new to their positions, taking on an expanded scope of responsibilities, or otherwise seeking to expand their impact. We also offer regular manager and employee classes focused on specific skills, leader learning journeys to help people leaders implement new capabilities over several months, and team-based workshops for groups who want to learn together.

•We offer a range of financial and nonfinancial compensation and benefits, including health, life and disability insurance; matching retirement and profit-sharing contributions; flexible paid time off; paid volunteer time; financial planning assistance; multiple wellness programs; and parental, caregiving, bereavement and military leave benefits. We also offer tuition support for certain employees. In 2021, we began offering our employees access to a behavior-change app designed to help our employees manage stress, improve focus and enhance overall well-being.

•We offer flexible work hours for many of our full-time and part-time employees.

•In 2021, we launched our first global employee engagement survey, administered by an independent third party, to assess our efforts around employee engagement, inclusion and well-being. Our executive officers (and managers, on a team level) reviewed the survey results and instituted action plans to address feedback and opportunity areas. We continue to track our progress on these efforts through shorter, periodic “pulse” engagement surveys.

•As a result of our focus on employee satisfaction and inclusiveness, we have been recognized for our workplace culture, including being named a 2021 Most Loved Workplace by Newsweek, one of America’s Best Employers for Diversity by Forbes and one of the Top 100 workplaces with the Best D&I Initiatives in 2021 by Mogul. 

Health, Safety and Security

The health and safety of our workers, particularly across our productions worldwide, remains a top priority. We strive to take a proactive approach to identifying and mitigating health, safety and security risks. Some of the steps we take are described below.

•In 2021, we began to centralize our nonproduction environmental health and safety (“EHS”) functions. We appointed a new Senior Vice President of EHS in an effort to ensure that these critical functions are managed consistently and reported on externally in an appropriate way.

•We have on-site health care at some office and production sites, as well as medics and medical support at many production sites.

•We perform risk assessments of daily work processes across our productions, offices and other work sites and develop hazard reduction, avoidance and mitigation plans. We also track and report safety, health and security incident data across the company.

I-15

•Our Global Security Operations Center oversees security and emergency response efforts and undertakes risk scans in an effort to identify potential security risks.

•After COVID-19 caused an initial period in which our offices closed and production ceased, we restarted productions in mid-2020 and began to manage a slow and safe return-to-office process. We have established a number of COVID-19-related safety protocols in our offices, on our productions and with respect to nonproduction activities. While the majority of our employees had the opportunity to work at a reduced capacity from certain offices, most of our office employees worked remotely in 2021.

Social Impact and Corporate Social Responsibility

We leverage our platforms and diverse capabilities to create positive social impacts, including by exploring and raising awareness of issues that align with our values and impact our viewers such as climate change, mental health, civic engagement and social justice. Our commitment to social impact is not only exemplified by the content we produce, but also our community service projects, philanthropy and employee engagement efforts, including our 25th annual Community Day, which was held virtually in 2021 and involved employees from 23 regions around the world across more than 100 volunteer projects. 

Content for Change

Content for Change is a social justice initiative launched by BET in 2020 that is anchored in the belief that storytelling has the power to transform how we see ourselves and one another. In 2021, we expanded the program across the Company with three interrelated objectives: (1) leveraging content to counteract racism, bias, stereotypes and hate; (2) striving for equity across our entire creative supply chain; and (3) creating a culture of diversity, inclusion and belonging that continuously informs and enhances the stories we tell through our content. This initiative builds upon our commitment to our community, as well as to DE&I and fostering an inclusive company culture.

Regulation

Our businesses and the intellectual property they create or acquire are subject to and affected by laws and regulations of U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities, as well as laws and regulations of countries other than the U.S. and pan-national bodies such as the European Union (“E.U.”). The laws and regulations affecting our businesses are constantly subject to change, as are the protections that those laws and regulations afford us. The discussion below describes certain, but not all, present and proposed laws and regulations affecting our businesses.

FCC and Similar Regulation

The FCC regulates broadcast television, some aspects of cable network programming, and certain programming delivered by internet protocol in the U.S., pursuant to U.S. federal law, including the Communications Act. Violation of FCC regulations can result in substantial monetary fines, the imposition of reporting obligations, limited renewals of licenses and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of a license.

License Renewals and Transfers

Each of our owned television stations in the U.S. must be licensed by the FCC. Television broadcast licenses are typically granted for eight-year terms, and we must obtain renewals as they expire to continue operating our stations. The Communications Act requires the FCC to renew a broadcast license if the FCC finds that (1) the station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (2) with respect to the station, there have been no serious violations by the licensee of either the Communications Act or FCC regulations; and (3) there have been no other violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC regulations that, taken together, 

I-16

constitute a pattern of abuse. As of February 14, 2022, we had three pending renewal applications, and we will be filing applications with respect to most of our remaining stations on a staggered basis in 2022 and 2023. A station remains authorized to operate while its license renewal application is pending. In addition, the Communications Act requires prior FCC approval for the assignment of a license or transfer of control of an FCC licensee.

Broadcast Ownership Regulation

The Communications Act and FCC rules impose limits on local and national broadcast television station ownership in the U.S. The broadcast ownership rules discussed below are the most relevant to our operations in the U.S. In 2019, a federal appellate court vacated a 2017 FCC decision that had (1) repealed rules restricting common ownership of a TV station with either a daily newspaper or one or more radio stations in the same local market, and (2) loosened a rule restricting common ownership of TV stations within the same market.

Local Television Ownership

The FCC’s local television ownership rule generally limits common ownership of two full-power stations in a market unless at least one of the owned stations is not a top-four ranked station in the market based on audience share, provided that the FCC may permit such common ownership if it finds such ownership would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity.

Dual Network Rule

The dual network rule effectively prohibits any of the four major U.S. broadcast networks — ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC — from combining or being under common control.

Television National Audience Reach Limitation

Under the national television ownership rule, one party may not own television stations that reach more than 39% of all U.S. television households. However, for purposes of this rule, a UHF station is afforded a “discount” and is therefore attributed with reaching only 50% of the television households in its market. We currently own and operate television stations that reach approximately 38% of all U.S. television households, but we are attributed with reaching approximately 24% of all such households for purposes of the national ownership rule because of the discount.

Foreign Ownership

In general, the Communications Act restricts foreign individuals or entities from collectively owning more than 25% of our voting power or equity. FCC approval is required to exceed the 25% threshold. The FCC has approved foreign ownership levels of up to 100% in certain instances, subsequent to its review and approval of specific, named foreign individuals.

Cable and Satellite Carriage of Television Broadcast Stations

The Communications Act and FCC rules govern the retransmission of broadcast television stations by cable system operators, direct broadcast satellite operators, and other MVPDs in the U.S. Pursuant to these regulations, we have elected to negotiate with MVPDs for the right to carry our broadcast television stations via retransmission consent agreements. The Communications Act and FCC regulations require that broadcasters and some categories of MVPDs negotiate in good faith for retransmission consent. Some MVPDs have sought changes to federal law that would eliminate or otherwise limit the ability of broadcasters to obtain fair compensation for the grant of retransmission consent.

I-17

Program Regulation

The FCC also regulates the content of broadcast, cable network, and other video programming. The FCC prohibits broadcasters from airing obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. The FCC’s maximum forfeiture penalty per station for broadcasting indecent or profane programming is approximately $445,445 per indecent or profane utterance or image, with a maximum forfeiture exposure of approximately $4.1 million for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. The FCC also actively monitors compliance with requirements that apply to broadcasters and cable networks relating to political advertising, identification of program sponsors, and the use and integrity of the Emergency Alert System. In addition, FCC regulations require the closed captioning of almost all broadcast and cable programming, as well as certain programming in the U.S. delivered by internet protocol. Broadcast television stations in certain markets that are affiliated with one of the four major U.S. broadcast networks must also provide a certain amount of programming every quarter that includes audio description (audio-narrated description of a television program’s key visual elements that make the programming accessible to blind and low-vision viewers).

Children’s Programming

Our business is subject to various regulations in the U.S. and abroad applicable to children’s programming. U.S. federal law and FCC rules limit the amount and content of commercial matter that may be shown on broadcast television stations and cable networks during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger, and the FCC also limits the display of certain commercial website addresses during children’s programming. Moreover, each of our broadcast television stations in the U.S. is required to air, in general, three hours per week of programming specifically designed to meet the educational and informational programming needs of children 16 years of age and younger.

In addition, some policymakers have sought limitations on food and beverage marketing in media popular with children and teens. For example, restrictions on the television advertising of foods high in fat, salt and sugar (“HFSS”) to children aged 15 and under have been in place in the U.K. since 2007. The U.K. government has announced its intention to impose a ban, effective in 2023, on all HFSS advertising before 9:00 p.m. on television and a total ban online. Various laws with similar objectives have also been enacted in Ireland, Turkey, Mexico, Chile, Argentina, Peru, Taiwan and South Korea, and significant pressure for similar restrictions continues to be felt globally, most acutely in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, India, Hungary, Singapore, South Africa and France. The implementation of these or similar limitations and restrictions could have a negative impact on our television advertising revenues, particularly for our networks with programming for children and teens.

Broadcast Transmission Standard

In 2017, the FCC adopted rules to permit television broadcasters to voluntarily broadcast using the “Next Generation” broadcast television transmission standard developed by the Advanced Television Systems Committee, Inc., also called “ATSC 3.0.” Those full-service television stations using the standard are subject to certain requirements, including the obligation to continue broadcasting a generally identical program stream in the current ATSC 1.0 broadcast standard. The ATSC 3.0 standard can be used to offer better picture quality and improved mobile broadcast viewing. A television station converting to ATSC 3.0 operation will incur significant costs in equipment purchases and upgrades. In addition, consumers may be required to obtain new television sets or other equipment that are capable of receiving ATSC 3.0 broadcasts. We are participating in ATSC 3.0 partnerships with other broadcasters and may enter into additional partnerships in the future.

Global Data Protection Laws and Children’s Privacy Laws

A number of data protection and privacy laws impact, or may impact, the manner in which we collect, process and transfer personal data. In the E.U., the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) mandates data protection compliance obligations and authorizes significant fines for noncompliance. In the U.S., the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”) went into effect in January 2020 and created a host of new obligations for businesses 

I-18

regarding how they handle the personal information of California residents, including creating new data access, data deletion and opt out rights. The new California Privacy Right Act will replace the CCPA in early 2023 and creates even more onerous obligations, including the need to implement mechanisms for consumers to opt out of personal data sharing with third parties in the context of digital advertising. A number of other regions where we do business, including the U.S., Asia and Latin America, have enacted or are considering new data protection legislation and regulations that may impact our business activities that involve the processing of personal data.

In addition, some of the mechanisms we previously relied upon for the international transfer of personal data from the E.U. to other countries including the U.S., are no longer available. New legal requirements such as utilizing the new standard contractual clauses recently approved by the European Commission require significant resources going forward to perform international data transfer assessments.

We are also subject to laws and regulations intended specifically to protect the interests of children, including the privacy of minors online. The U.S. Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (“COPPA”) limits the collection by operators of websites or online services of personal information online from children under the age of 13. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission has yet to issue a proposed new COPPA rule as part of its review of its regulations implementing COPPA begun in 2019; however, the agency as well as some state Attorneys General have continued to bring enforcement cases under the existing COPPA rule. Since the enactment of GDPR in 2018, several countries in the E.U. and U.K. have issued guidance documents or codes of conduct with respect to the online privacy of children under 18, which impact countries outside of the U.K. and E.U., including the U.S. and in Australia. Such regulations may also restrict the types of advertising we are able to sell on these online services, sites and apps and may impose strict liability on us for certain of our actions, as well as certain actions of our advertisers and other third parties, which could affect advertising demand and pricing. In the U.S., state and federal policymakers are also considering regulatory and legislative methods to protect consumer privacy on the internet, and these efforts have focused particular attention on children and teens. Congress has held several hearings on protecting children and teens online and has signaled that an update to COPPA with stronger protections for children and teens is likely.

See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Relating to Business Continuity, Cybersecurity and Privacy and Data Protection — We are subject to complex, often inconsistent and potentially costly laws, rules, regulations, industry standards and contractual obligations relating to privacy and personal data protection.”

Intellectual Property

We are fundamentally a content company, and the trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property laws that protect our brands and content are extremely important to us. It is our practice to protect our brands, content and related intellectual property. Unauthorized exploitation of copyrighted works interferes with the legitimate market and disrupts our ability to distribute and monetize our content. The infringement of our intellectual property rights presents a significant challenge to our industry, and we take a number of steps to address this concern. For example, where possible, we use technologies, such as encryption, watermarking, and digital rights management tools, to protect our content from piracy. We are also actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, including: monitoring services that unlawfully distribute or otherwise infringe our content and sending takedown or cease-and-desist notices in appropriate circumstances; using filtering technologies employed by some social media companies and other platforms hosting our content; working with intermediaries and other third parties to address current infringements and prevent more in the future; and pursuing litigation and referrals to law enforcement. Through partnerships with various organizations, we also are actively involved in educational outreach to the creative community, state and federal government officials and other stakeholders in an effort to marshal greater resources to combat intellectual property infringement. Additionally, we participate in various industrywide enforcement initiatives, public relations programs and legislative activities on a worldwide basis. For example, we have had notable success with site-blocking efforts in parts of Europe, Asia, Latin America and Australia, which can be effective in steering consumers away from piracy platforms and toward legitimate platforms.

I-19

Notwithstanding these efforts and the many legal protections that exist to combat piracy, the proliferation of infringing services and the sophistication of and continued technological advancement in the tools used in infringing activities continues to be a challenge. The failure to maintain enhanced legal protections and enforcement tools and to update those tools as threats evolve could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could negatively impact its value and further increase the costs of enforcing our rights as we continue to expend substantial resources to protect our content.

Our Executive Officers

Our executive officers as of February 14, 2022, are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Robert M. Bakish has been our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board since December 2019. Mr. Bakish served as President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the board of Viacom from December 2016 to December 2019, having served as Acting President and Chief Executive Officer beginning earlier in 2016. Mr. Bakish joined Viacom’s predecessor (“Former Viacom”) in 1997 and held positions throughout the organization, including as President and Chief Executive Officer of Viacom International Media Networks and its predecessor company, MTV Networks International, from 2007 to 2016; Executive Vice President, Operations and Viacom Enterprises; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, MTV Networks Advertising Sales; and Senior Vice President, Planning, Development and Technology. Before joining Former Viacom, Mr. Bakish was a partner with Booz Allen Hamilton in its Media and Entertainment practice. Mr. Bakish has served as a director of Avid Technology, Inc. since 2009.

Naveen Chopra has been our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since August 2020. Prior to that, he served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Amazon Devices & Services, beginning in 2019. Prior to joining Amazon Devices & Services, Mr. Chopra served as Chief Financial Officer of Pandora Media from 2017 to 2019 and as its Interim Chief Executive Officer during part of this time, having previously served as Interim Chief Executive Officer of TiVo Inc. in 2016 and as its Chief Financial Officer from 2012 to 2016.

Christa A. D’Alimonte has been our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since December 2019. Prior to that, she served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Viacom beginning in 2017, having previously served as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary beginning in 2012. Prior to joining Viacom, Ms. D’Alimonte was a partner of Shearman & Sterling LLP, where she was Deputy Practice Group Leader of the Firm’s Global Mergers & Acquisitions group. She first joined Shearman & Sterling in 1993 and became a partner in 2001.

Katherine Gill-Charest has been our Executive Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since December 2019. Prior to that, she served as Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Viacom beginning in 2010, having previously served as Senior Vice President, Deputy Controller of Viacom during 2010 and Vice President, Deputy Controller beginning in 2007. Prior to that, Ms. Gill-Charest was the Chief Accounting Officer of WPP Group from 2001 to 2007 and was the Vice President and Worldwide Controller of Young & Rubicam Inc. from 1998 to 2000. Ms. Gill-Charest also held roles in financial reporting 

I-20

and accounting policy at Time Warner Inc. from 1991 to 1998 and at NYNEX Corporation from 1988 to 1991 and served in the audit practice of Price Waterhouse for two years.

Richard M. Jones has been our Executive Vice President, General Tax Counsel and Chief Veteran Officer since August 2014. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and General Tax Counsel of CBS Corporation beginning in 2006 and of Former Viacom beginning in 2005. Prior to that, he served as Vice President of Tax, Assistant Treasurer and Tax Counsel for NBC Universal, Inc. beginning in 2003 and he served 13 years with Ernst & Young in its media & entertainment and transaction advisory services practices. Mr. Jones served honorably as a noncommissioned officer in the U.S. Army’s 75th Ranger Regiment and 10th Mountain Division.

Doretha (DeDe) Lea has been our Executive Vice President, Global Public Policy and Government Relations since December 2019. Prior to that, she served as Executive Vice President, Global Government Affairs of Viacom beginning in 2013, having previously served as Executive Vice President, Government Relations beginning in 2005. Prior to that, Ms. Lea served in various government relations positions at Former Viacom beginning in 1997, with the exception of 2004 to 2005, when she served as Vice President of Government Affairs at Belo Corp. Prior to joining Former Viacom, she was Senior Vice President of Government Relations at the National Association of Broadcasters.

Julia Phelps has been our Executive Vice President, Chief Communications and Corporate Marketing Officer since December 2019. Prior to that, she served as Executive Vice President, Communications, Culture and Marketing of Viacom beginning in 2017, having previously served as Senior Vice President, Communications and Culture of Viacom beginning earlier in 2017. Prior to that, she served as Executive Vice President of Communications for Viacom International Media Networks beginning in 2012, after having served as Vice President of Corporate Communications for Viacom. Ms. Phelps joined Former Viacom in 2005 from DeVries Public Relations, a New York-based communications agency.

Nancy Phillips has been our Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer since December 2019. Prior to that, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of Nielsen Holdings PLC beginning in 2017, having served as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of Broadcom Corporation from 2014 to 2016. From 2010 to 2014, Ms. Phillips was Senior Vice President, Human Resources for the Imaging and Printing Group at Hewlett-Packard Company, and previously served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Enterprise Services. From 2008 to 2010, Ms. Phillips served as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer at Fifth Third Bancorp. Prior to that, Ms. Phillips spent 11 years at General Electric Company, holding various human resources positions. Ms. Phillips practiced law from 1993 to 1997.

Available Information

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the SEC. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, will be available free of charge on our website at www.ViacomCBS.com (under “Investors”) as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with the SEC. These documents are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

We announce material financial information through SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts and our investor relations website at ir.ViacomCBS.com. We may use any of these channels as well as social media and blogs to communicate with investors about our Company. It is possible that the information we post on social media and blogs could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our Company to review the information we post on the social media channels and blogs listed on our investor relations website.

I-21

Item 1A.

Risk Factors.