Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Overview.”

Damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business.

Maintaining our strong reputation with consumers and our trade partners globally is critical to selling our branded products. Accordingly, we devote significant time and resources to programs designed to protect and preserve our reputation, such as our ethics and compliance, DE&I, sustainability and social impact, brand protection and product safety, regulatory and quality initiatives. Negative publicity about us, our brands, our products, our supply chain, our ingredients, our packaging, our environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) practices, including as they relate to sustainability, DE&I, or our employees, whether or not deserved, could jeopardize our reputation. Such negative publicity could relate to, among other things, health concerns, threatened or pending litigation or regulatory proceedings, environmental impact (including deforestation, packaging, plastic, energy and water use and waste management), our ESG practices or our sustainability targets. In addition, the proliferation of digital and social media has greatly increased the accessibility of information and the speed of its dissemination and the potential for negative publicity. Negative publicity, posts or comments on digital and social media about us, our brands, our products, our sustainability efforts, our environmental and social impact (including our packaging) or our employees, whether true or untrue, could damage our brands and our reputation. The success of our brands could also suffer if our marketing initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand’s image or its ability to attract consumers.

Additionally, due to the scale and scope of our business, we must rely on relationships with third parties, including our suppliers, distributors, contractors, joint venture partners and other external business partners, for certain functions. While we have policies and procedures for managing these relationships, they inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, compliance and ESG practices, thereby potentially increasing our reputational and legal risk.

In addition, third parties sell counterfeit versions of our products, which are inferior or may pose safety risks. As a result, consumers of our brands could confuse our products with these counterfeit products, which could cause them to refrain from purchasing our brands in the future and in turn could impair our brand equity and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for these or any other reasons could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as require resources to rebuild our reputation.

Our success depends upon our ability to recruit, attract and retain key employees, including through the implementation of diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, and the succession of senior management.

Our success largely depends on the performance of our management team and other key employees. If we are unable to recruit, attract and retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key people, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Successfully executing organizational change, including management transitions at leadership levels of the Company and succession plans for senior management, is critical to our business success. While we follow a disciplined, ongoing succession planning process and have succession plans in place for senior management and other key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of qualified senior executives will continue to be available to us at particular moments in time. Further, changes in immigration laws and government policies, including related to the COVID-19 pandemic, have made, in certain circumstances, and may continue to make it more difficult for us to recruit or relocate highly skilled technical, professional and management personnel to meet our business needs. Our ability to attract and retain talent has been and may continue to be impacted by challenges in the labor market, particularly in the United States, which is experiencing wage inflation, labor shortages, a shift toward remote work and the effects of COVID-19. In addition, we also continue to work to advance culture change through the implementation of DE&I initiatives throughout our organization. We are also implementing new ways of working to, among other things, instill a growth mindset to drive innovation with focus, empowerment, experimentation and digitization. If we do not (or are perceived not to) successfully implement these initiatives, our ability to recruit, attract and retain talent may be adversely impacted.

12

We have pursued and may continue to pursue acquisitions and divestitures, which could adversely impact our business.

We have pursued and may continue to pursue acquisitions of brands, businesses, assets or technologies from third parties. Acquisitions and their pursuit have involved, and can involve, numerous potential risks, including, among other things:

•realizing the full extent of the expected benefits or synergies as a result of a transaction, within the anticipated time frame, or at all;

•successfully integrating the operations, technologies, services, products and systems of the acquired brands, assets or businesses in an effective, timely and cost-efficient manner;

•receiving necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with a transaction;

•diverting management’s attention from other business priorities;

•successfully operating in new lines of business, channels of distribution or markets;

•achieving distribution expansion related to products, categories and markets;

•retaining key employees, partners, suppliers and customers of the acquired business;

•conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies of the acquired business with our own;

•developing or launching products with acquired technologies; and

•other unanticipated problems or liabilities.

Moreover, acquisitions have resulted in and could in the future result in substantial additional debt, the assumption of contingent liabilities, such as litigation or earn-out obligations, or transaction costs. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with an acquisition or investment diminish in the future or the performance of an acquired company or business is less robust than expected, we may be required to record additional impairments of intangible assets, including trademarks and goodwill. In the fourth quarter of 2021, we took a non-cash, aftertax impairment charge of $518 million to adjust the carrying values of goodwill and a trade name intangible asset related to the Filorga skin health business. Any of these risks could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

We have divested and may in the future periodically divest brands or businesses. These divestitures may adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition if we are unable to offset the dilutive impacts from the loss of revenue associated with the divested brands or businesses, or otherwise achieve the anticipated benefits or cost savings from the divestitures. In addition, businesses under consideration for, or otherwise subject to, divestiture may be adversely impacted prior to the divestiture, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Operational Risks

Our business results are impacted by our ability to manage disruptions in our global supply chain and/or key office facilities.

We are engaged in the manufacture and sourcing of products and materials on a global scale. Our operations and those of our suppliers, contract manufacturers or logistics providers have been and may continue to be disrupted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to:

•environmental events;

•widespread health emergencies, such as COVID-19 or other pandemics or epidemics;

13

•strikes and other labor disputes;

•disruptions in logistics;

•loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites;

•loss of key suppliers or contract manufacturers;

•supplier capacity constraints;

•raw material and product quality or safety issues;

•industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues;

•the impact on our suppliers of tighter credit or capital markets;

•the lack of availability of qualified personnel, such as truck drivers and production labor;

•governmental incentives and controls (including import and export restrictions, such as new or increased tariffs, sanctions, quotas or trade barriers); and

•natural disasters, including climatic events (including any potential effects of climate change) and earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, political unrest or uncertainty, fires or explosions, cyber-security incidents and other external factors over which we have no control.

In addition, we purchase certain key raw and packaging materials from single-source suppliers or a limited number of suppliers and new suppliers may have to be qualified under industry, governmental and/or Colgate standards, which can require additional investment and take a significant period of time. If our existing or new suppliers fail to meet such standards or if we are unable to contract with suppliers on favorable terms, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected.

We believe that the supplies of raw and packaging materials needed to manufacture our products are adequate. In addition, we have business continuity and contingency plans in place for key manufacturing sites and contract manufacturers and the supply of raw and packaging materials. Nonetheless, a significant disruption to the manufacturing or sourcing of products or materials for any reason, including those mentioned above, have at times interrupted and could, in the future, interrupt product supply and, if not remedied, could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

In addition, as a result of our global shared service organizational model, certain of our functions, such as finance and accounting, customer service and logistics, human resources, global information technology and data analytics are concentrated in key office facilities. A significant disruption to any of our key office facilities for any reason, including those mentioned above, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Volatility in material and other costs could adversely impact our profitability.

Raw and packaging material commodities, such as essential oils, resins, tropical oils, pulp, tallow, corn, poultry and soybeans, are subject to market price variations. Increases in the costs of and/or a reduction in the availability of commodities, energy and logistics (including trucks and containers) and other necessary services, including during the COVID-19 pandemic, have affected and are likely to continue to adversely affect our profit margins. Inflationary pressures have also increased and may continue to increase the cost of such commodities and services. If commodity and other cost increases continue in the future and we are unable to pass along such higher costs in the form of price increases, achieve cost efficiencies, such as in manufacturing and distribution, or otherwise manage the exposure through sourcing strategies, ongoing productivity initiatives and the limited use of commodity hedging contracts, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely impacted. In addition, even if we are able to increase the prices of our products in response to commodity and other cost increases, we may not be able to sustain the price increases. Also, sustained price increases may lead to declines in volume as competitors may not adjust their prices or consumers may 

14

decide not to pay higher prices, which could lead to sales declines and loss of market share and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. See “Our business results depend on our ability to manage disruptions in our global supply chain and/or key office facilities” above for additional information.

There is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts to reduce costs will be successful.

One way that we generate funds needed to support the growth of our business is through our continuous, Company-wide initiatives to lower costs and increase effective asset utilization, which we refer to as our funding-the-growth initiatives. These initiatives are designed to reduce costs associated with direct materials, indirect expenses, distribution and logistics, and advertising and promotional materials, among other things. The achievement of our funding-the-growth goals depends on our ability to successfully identify and realize additional savings opportunities. Events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing any or all of the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable. If we are unable to realize the anticipated savings of our funding-the-growth initiatives, our ability to fund other initiatives and achieve our profitability goals may be adversely affected. Any failure to implement our funding-the-growth initiatives in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For additional information regarding our funding-the-growth initiatives, refer to Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Overview.”

We may not realize the benefits that we expect from our 2022 Global Productivity Initiative.

On January 27, 2022, the Board approved a targeted productivity program (the “2022 Global Productivity Initiative”). The program is intended to reallocate resources toward our strategic priorities and faster growth businesses, drive efficiencies in our operations and streamline our supply chain to reduce structural costs. The successful implementation of the program may present organizational challenges and, in some cases, may require successful negotiations with third parties. As a result, we may not be able to realize all of the anticipated benefits from the 2022 Global Productivity Initiative. Events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing all of the anticipated benefits or our not realizing such benefits on our expected timetable. In addition, changes in foreign exchange rates or in tax, labor or immigration laws may result in our not achieving the anticipated cost savings as measured in U.S. dollars. If we are unable to realize the anticipated savings from the 2022 Global Productivity Initiative, our ability to fund other initiatives and enhance profitability may be adversely affected. Any failure to implement the 2022 Global Productivity Initiative in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For additional information regarding the 2022 Global Productivity Initiative, refer to Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges.”

A cyber-security incident, data breach or a failure of a key information technology system could adversely impact our business.

We rely extensively on information technology systems (“IT Systems”), including some which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties, including cloud-based service providers, and their vendors, in order to conduct our business. Our uses of these systems include, but are not limited to:

•communicating within our company and with other parties, including our customers and consumers;

•ordering and managing materials from suppliers;

•converting materials to finished products;

•receiving and processing orders from, shipping products to and invoicing our customers and consumers;

•marketing products to consumers;

•collecting, storing, transferring and/or processing customer, consumer, employee, vendor, investor and other stakeholder information and personal data, including, but not limited to, such data from residents of the European Union who are covered by the General Data Protection Regulation, which went into effect on May 25, 2018, and 

15

residents of the State of California who are covered by the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, which went into effect on January 1, 2020;

•processing transactions, including but not limited to employee payroll, employee and retiree benefits and payments to customers and vendors;

•hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, intellectual property, business plans and financial information;

•summarizing and reporting results of operations, including financial reporting;

•managing our banking and other cash liquidity systems and platforms;

•complying with legal, regulatory and tax requirements;

•providing data security; and

•handling other processes involved in managing our business.

Although we have a broad array of information security measures in place, our IT Systems, including those of third-party service providers with whom we have contracted, have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, phishing and other cyber-attacks. Cyber-attacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving in nature, are becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups, individuals and nation states with a wide range of expertise and motives. Such cyber-attacks and cyber incidents can take many forms, including cyber extortion, social engineering, password theft or introduction of viruses or malware, such as ransomware through phishing emails. We cannot guarantee that our security efforts will prevent breaches or breakdowns of our, or our third-party service providers’, IT Systems since the techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time. In addition, although we have policies and procedures in place to ensure that all personal information collected by us or our third-party service providers is securely maintained, data leakages due to human error or intentional or unintentional conduct have occurred and likely will continue to occur. Furthermore, we periodically upgrade our IT Systems or adopt new technologies. If such an upgrade or new technology does not function as designed, does not go as planned or increases our exposure to a cyber-attack or cyber incident, it may adversely impact our business, including our ability to ship products to customers, issue invoices and process payments or order raw and packaging materials. Although we have seen no material impact on our business operations from the cyber-security incidents we have experienced to date, if we suffer a significant loss or disclosure of confidential business or stakeholder information as a result of a breach of our IT Systems, including those of third-party service providers with whom we have contracted, or otherwise, we may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm, incur significant costs and be subject to government investigations, litigation, fines and/or damages, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, while we currently maintain insurance coverage that, subject to its terms and conditions, is intended to address costs associated with certain aspects of cyber-security incidents and IT System failures, this insurance coverage may not, depending on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding an incident, cover all losses or all types of claims that arise from an incident, or the damage to our business, reputation or brands that may result from an incident.

Furthermore, while we have disaster recovery and business continuity plans in place, if our IT Systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly for any reason, including the poor performance of, failure of or cyber-attack on third-party service providers, catastrophic events, power outages, cyber-security breaches, network outages, failed upgrades or other similar events and, if the disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not effectively resolve such issues on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage or conduct business as well as reputational harm, and may be subject to governmental investigations and litigation, any of which may adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Climate change and other sustainability matters could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.

Climate change resulting from increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and its impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters may adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Specifically, 

16

the predicted effects of climate change may exacerbate challenges regarding the availability and quality of water and other ingredients. In addition, the increased concern over climate change is likely to result in new or additional legal and regulatory requirements intended to reduce or mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment and may relate to, among other things, greenhouse gas emissions (e.g., carbon pricing), alternative energy policy and additional disclosure obligations. Such additional regulation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition by increasing our compliance and manufacturing costs and/or negatively impacting our reputation if we are unable to, or are perceived (whether or not valid) not to, satisfy such requirements. Despite our sustainability efforts, any failure to achieve our sustainability targets, including those aimed to reduce our impact on, improve or preserve the environment, or the perception (whether or not valid) that we have failed to act responsibly with respect to such matters or to effectively respond to new or additional legal or regulatory requirements regarding climate change, could result in adverse publicity and adversely affect our business and reputation. There is also increased focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors, customers, consumers, our employees and other stakeholders on these and other sustainability matters, including responsible sourcing and deforestation, the use of plastic, energy and water, the recyclability or recoverability of packaging, including single-use and other plastic packaging, and a growing demand for natural or organic products and ingredients and ingredient transparency. Our reputation could be damaged if we do not (or are perceived not to) act responsibly with respect to sustainability matters, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Legal and Regulatory Risks

Our business is subject to legal and regulatory risks in the U.S. and abroad.

Our business is subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements in the U.S. and abroad. Such legal and regulatory requirements apply to most aspects of our products, including their development, ingredients, formulation, manufacture, packaging content, labeling, storage, transportation, distribution, export, import, advertising, sale and environmental impact. U.S. federal authorities, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”), the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency, regulate different aspects of our business, along with parallel authorities at the state and local levels and comparable authorities overseas. In addition, our selling practices are regulated by competition law authorities in the U.S. and abroad.

New or more stringent legal or regulatory requirements, or more restrictive interpretations of existing requirements, could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For example, from time to time, various regulatory authorities around the world review the use of various ingredients and packaging content in consumer products. While we monitor and seek to mitigate the impact of any emerging information, a decision by a regulatory or governmental authority that any ingredient or packaging content in our products should be restricted or should otherwise be newly regulated could adversely impact our business and reputation, as could negative reactions by our consumers, trade customers or non-governmental organizations to our current or prior use of such ingredients or packaging. Additionally, an inability to develop new or reformulated products containing alternative ingredients, to obtain regulatory approval of such products or ingredients on a timely basis or to effectively market and sell such products could likewise adversely affect our business.

Because of our extensive international operations, we could be adversely affected by violations of worldwide anti-bribery laws, including those that prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other third parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and laws that prohibit commercial bribery. We are also subject to laws and sanctions imposed by the U.S. (including, without limitation, those imposed by OFAC) and/or by other jurisdictions that may prohibit us or certain of our affiliates from doing business in certain countries, or restrict the kind of business that may be conducted. While our policies mandate compliance with these laws, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, joint venture partners or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and adversely affect our reputation and our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

While it is our policy and practice to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, findings that we are in violation of, or out of compliance with, applicable laws or regulations have subjected us to, and could subject us to, civil remedies, including fines, damages, injunctions or product recalls, or criminal sanctions, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Even if a claim is 

17

unsuccessful, is without merit or is not fully pursued, the cost of responding to such a claim, including management time and out-of-pocket expenses, and the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products, processes or business practices could adversely affect our reputation, brand image and our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For information regarding our legal and regulatory matters, see Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” and Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Legal claims and proceedings could adversely impact our business.

As a global company serving consumers in more than 200 countries and territories, we are and may continue to be subject to a wide variety of legal claims and proceedings, including disputes relating to intellectual property, contracts, product liability, marketing, advertising, foreign exchange controls, antitrust and trade regulation, as well as labor and employment, pension, data privacy and security, environmental and tax matters and consumer class actions. Regardless of their merit, these claims can require significant time and expense to investigate and defend. Since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that our assessment of the materiality of these matters, including any reserves taken in connection therewith, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such matters. In addition, if one of our products, or an ingredient contained in our products, is perceived or found to be defective, or unsafe or have a quality issue, we have had to and may in the future need to withdraw, recall or reformulate some of our products. Whether or not a legal claim or proceeding is successful, or a withdrawal, recall or reformulation is required or advisable, such assertions could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the negative publicity surrounding them could harm our reputation and brand image. The resolution of, or increase in the reserves taken in connection with, one or more of these matters in any reporting period could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition for that period. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” and Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on certain of our legal claims and proceedings.

Financial and Economic Risks

Uncertain or unfavorable global economic conditions, including as a result of COVID-19, may adversely affect our business.

Uncertain or unfavorable global economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Unfavorable global economic conditions, such as a recession, an economic slowdown, inflation and/or reduced category growth rates, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, could negatively impact our business and result in declining revenues, profitability and cash flows. Although we continue to devote significant resources to support our brands and market our products at multiple price points, during periods of economic uncertainty or unfavorable economic conditions, consumers may reduce consumption or discretionary spending and/or change their purchasing patterns by foregoing purchasing certain of our products or by switching to “private label” or lower-priced brands. These changes could reduce demand for and sales volumes of our products or result in a shift in our product mix from higher margin to lower margin product offerings. Additionally, our retailers may be impacted and they may increase pressure on our selling prices or increase promotional activity for lower-priced or value offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes and margins. Furthermore, economic conditions can cause our suppliers, distributors, contract manufacturers, logistics providers or other third-party partners to suffer financial or operational difficulties, which may impact their inability to provide us with or distribute finished product, raw and packaging materials and/or services in a timely manner or at all. In addition, we could face difficulty collecting or recovering accounts receivables from third parties facing financial or operational difficulties. 

Disruptions in the credit markets or changes to our credit ratings may adversely affect our business.

While we currently generate significant cash flows from ongoing operations and have access to global credit markets through our various financing activities, a disruption in the credit markets, interest rate increases, changes that may result from the implementation of new benchmark rates that are expected to replace the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or changes to our credit ratings could negatively impact the availability or cost of funding. Reduced access to credit or increased costs could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources or significantly increase our cost of capital. In addition, if any financial institutions that hold our cash or other investments or that are parties to our undrawn revolving credit facility supporting our commercial paper programs or other financing arrangements, such as interest rate, foreign exchange or commodity hedging instruments, were to declare bankruptcy or become insolvent, they may be unable to perform under their agreements with us. This could leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or unhedged against certain 

18

interest rate, foreign currency or commodity price exposures. In addition, tighter credit markets may lead to business disruptions for certain of our suppliers, contract manufacturers or trade customers which could, in turn, adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could negatively impact our business.

We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and in the foreign jurisdictions where we do business. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions have been and may be subject to significant change. Changes in the mix of our earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities related to changes in tax rates, changes in tax laws, including how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, or contemplated changes in long-standing tax principles, if finalized and adopted, could adversely impact our future effective tax rate and business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For example, long-standing international tax norms that determine each country’s jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving as a result of a multilateral project, the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project (the “BEPS Project”), that has established new principles and reporting requirements recommended by countries that then made up the G8 and the G20 and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the “OECD”). In connection with the BEPS Project, companies are required to disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world, which may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in countries outside of the U.S. The OECD, through the BEPS Project, is also addressing the challenges of the digitization of the global economy with plans to redefine jurisdictional taxation rights in market countries and establish a global minimum tax. As these and other tax laws and related regulations change, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially impacted. For more information regarding U.S. tax reform, see Note 11, Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Furthermore, we are subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities with respect to taxes inside and outside of the U.S. Although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, when a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we have faced and in the future may face additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, in excess of reserves. The payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

19

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

20

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

We own or lease approximately 330 properties, which include manufacturing, distribution, research and office facilities worldwide. Our corporate headquarters is located in leased property at 300 Park Avenue, New York, New York.

In the U.S., we operate in approximately 80 properties, of which 13 are owned. Major U.S. manufacturing and warehousing facilities used by the Oral, Personal and Home Care product segment of our business are located in Cambridge, Ohio; Greenwood, South Carolina; and Morristown, Tennessee. The Pet Nutrition segment has major manufacturing and warehousing facilities in Bowling Green, Kentucky; Emporia, Kansas; Richmond, Indiana; and Topeka, Kansas. 

Overseas, we operate in approximately 250 properties, of which 57 are owned, in over 80 countries. Major overseas manufacturing and warehousing facilities used by the Oral, Personal and Home Care product segment of our business are located in Australia, Brazil, China, Colombia, France, Greece, Guatemala, India, Italy, Mexico, Poland, South Africa, Thailand, Turkey, Venezuela and Vietnam. The Pet Nutrition segment has major manufacturing and warehousing facilities in the Czech Republic and the Netherlands.

The primary research center for Oral Care and Personal Care products is located in Piscataway, New Jersey, the primary research center for Home Care products is located in Mexico and the primary research center for Pet Nutrition products is located in Topeka, Kansas. Our global data center is also located in Piscataway, New Jersey.

We have shared business service centers in India, Mexico and Poland, which are located in leased properties.

All of the facilities we operate are well maintained and adequate for the purpose for which they are intended.

21

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For information regarding legal proceedings, refer to Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

22

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

For information regarding the market for the Company’s common stock, including stock price performance graphs, refer to “Market Information” included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. For information regarding the securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, refer to “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters” included in Part III, Item 12 of this report.

As of December 31, 2021, the number of common shareholders of record was 18,388.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

On June 18, 2018, the Board authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company’s common stock having an aggregate purchase price of up to $5 billion under a new share repurchase program (the “2018 Program”), which replaced a previously authorized share repurchase program. The Board also has authorized share repurchases on an ongoing basis to fulfill certain requirements of the Company’s compensation and benefit programs. The shares are repurchased from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions at the Company’s discretion, subject to market conditions, customary blackout periods and other factors.

The following table shows the share repurchase activity for the three months in the quarter ended December 31, 2021:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______

(1)Includes share repurchases under the 2018 Program and those associated with certain employee elections under the Company’s compensation and benefit programs.

(2)The difference between the total number of shares purchased and the total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs is 13,159 shares, which represents shares deemed surrendered to the Company to satisfy certain employee elections under the Company’s compensation and benefit programs.

(3)Includes approximate dollar value of shares that were available to be purchased under the publicly announced plans or programs that were in effect as of December 31, 2021.

ITEM 6. [Reserved]

23

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Executive Overview

Business Organization

Colgate-Palmolive Company (together with its subsidiaries, “we,” “us” “our” the “Company” or “Colgate”) is a caring, innovative growth company reimagining a healthier future for all people, their pets and our planet. We seek to deliver sustainable, profitable growth and superior shareholder returns, as well as to provide Colgate people with an innovative and inclusive work environment. We do this by developing and selling products globally that make people’s and their pets’ lives healthier and more enjoyable and by embracing our sustainability and social impact and DE&I strategies across our organization.

We are tightly focused on two product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. Within these segments, we follow a closely defined business strategy to grow our key product categories and increase our overall market share. Within the categories in which we compete, we prioritize our efforts based on their capacity to maximize the use of the organization’s core competencies and strong global equities and to deliver sustainable, profitable long-term growth.

Operationally, we are organized along geographic lines with management teams having responsibility for the business and financial results in each region. We compete in more than 200 countries and territories worldwide with established businesses in all regions contributing to our sales and profitability. Approximately 70% of our Net sales are generated from markets outside the U.S., with approximately 45% of our Net sales coming from emerging markets (which consist of Latin America, Asia (excluding Japan), Africa/Eurasia and Central Europe). This geographic diversity and balance help to reduce our exposure to business and other risks in any one country or part of the world.

The Oral, Personal and Home Care product segment is managed geographically in five reportable operating segments: North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia Pacific and Africa/Eurasia, all of which sell primarily to a variety of traditional and eCommerce retailers, wholesalers and distributors. Through Hill’s Pet Nutrition, we also compete on a worldwide basis in the pet nutrition market, selling products principally through authorized pet supply retailers, veterinarians and eCommerce retailers. We also sell certain of our products direct-to-consumer. We are engaged in manufacturing and sourcing of products and materials on a global scale and have major manufacturing facilities, warehousing facilities and distribution centers in every region around the world.

On an ongoing basis, management focuses on a variety of key indicators to monitor business health and performance. These indicators include net sales (including volume, pricing and foreign exchange components), organic sales growth (net sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions and divestments), a non-GAAP financial measure, and gross profit margin, operating profit, net income and earnings per share, in each case, on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis, as well as measures used to optimize the management of working capital, capital expenditures, cash flow and return on capital. In addition, we review market share and other data to assess how our brands are performing within their categories on a global and regional basis. The monitoring of these indicators and our Code of Conduct and corporate governance practices help to maintain business health and strong internal controls. For additional information regarding non-GAAP financial measures and the Company’s use of market share data and the limitations of such data, see “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” and “Market Share Information” below.

24

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

COVID-19

The COVID-19 pandemic and government steps to reduce the spread and address the impact of COVID-19 have had and continue to have a profound impact on the way people live, work, interact and shop and have significantly impacted and continue to impact economic activity around the world. We have a well-established Crisis Management Team (“CMT”) process, and the CMT, together with our senior management team and Colgate people around the world, continue to respond to and manage the challenges presented by COVID-19.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, many of the communities in which we manufacture, market and sell our products experienced and in some cases continue to experience “stay at home” orders, travel or movement restrictions and other government actions to reduce the spread and address the impact of COVID-19, and have implemented varying policies to address the pandemic, resume economic activity and vaccinate their populations. The situation continues to be uncertain and varies by geography, as the impact of COVID-19 remains significant in many countries throughout the world, including Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Thailand, the U.S. and Vietnam, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities. Because the vast majority of our products (such as oral care products, soaps and other personal hygiene products, home cleaners and pet food) have been deemed essential for the health and well-being of people and their pets, we have, in most instances, been able to continue operating our business, although not always at full capacity.

The health, safety and well-being of our employees and their families has been and remains our first priority. While we have reopened most of our offices, in some instances on a limited and voluntary basis, many of our office-based employees globally continue to work from home. We have implemented additional health and safety measures consistent with government recommendations and/or requirements to help ensure employee safety in our offices, production facilities, warehouses and technology centers, often at additional cost. These measures may include: health and temperature screening, social distancing and personal protective equipment protocols, hand washing, contact tracing, enhanced cleaning procedures, respiratory hygiene, education and, in some instances, testing and/or vaccination requirements. In addition, during the COVID-19 pandemic, we have seen increased instances of absenteeism and, in some cases, we have experienced some limited production facility closures and related supply chain disruptions. Furthermore, some of our suppliers, customers, distributors, logistics providers and service providers have experienced disruptions to their businesses.

We saw a significant increase in demand across many of our categories, such as liquid hand soap, dish liquid, bar soap and cleaners, during 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, driven by consumer pantry-loading and increased consumption of our products. While consumer demand for most of these categories declined year-over-year in 2021, most still remained above historical levels, and we believe that some of this increase in consumption is sustainable in light of changes in consumer behavior related to COVID-19. Across our business, changes in consumer demand for our products vary by product category, channel and geography depending on, among other things, the severity of the COVID-19 outbreak, the availability of our products at retailers and supply chain disruptions. At the same time, during the COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced disruptions in certain channels, including travel retail. We also continue to see changes in the purchasing patterns of our consumers, including the nature and/or frequency of visits by consumers to retailers and dental, veterinary and skin health professionals and a shift in many markets to purchasing our products online.

COVID-19 and government steps to reduce the spread and address the impact of COVID-19 have impacted and may continue to impact our consumers’ ability to purchase and our ability to manufacture and distribute our products. While we believe that, in the long-term, consumer demand for the products in our categories will continue to be strong, uncertainties continue surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic. These uncertainties include: the impact of the timing and scale of changes to travel and movement restrictions in certain geographies, the availability and widespread distribution and use of COVID-19 vaccines, the emergence and spread of COVID-19 variants, the timing and impact of consumer pantry-loading and destocking activity in certain markets, product demand trends and the impact of COVID-19 on the global economy, including as a result of inflation, and supply chain disruptions. COVID-19 has also disrupted our retail customers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers and other third parties; their ability to address COVID-19 and maintain their operations at full capacity has impacted and may continue to impact sales of and consumer access to our products. We expect the ongoing economic impact and health concerns associated with COVID-19 to continue to impact consumer behavior, shopping patterns and consumption preferences during 2022.

While we currently expect to be able to continue operating our business as described above and we intend to continue to work with government authorities and to follow the necessary protocols to maintain the health and safety of our employees and third parties, uncertainty resulting from COVID-19 could result in an unforeseen additional disruption to our business, including our global supply chain and retailer network, and/or require us to incur additional operational costs.

For more information about the anticipated COVID-19 impact, see “Outlook” below.

25

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Business Strategy

To achieve our business and financial objectives, we are focused on driving organic sales growth and long-term profitable growth through innovation on our core businesses; leveraging faster growth in adjacent categories; expanding in high-growth channels and markets and delivering margin expansion through operating leverage and efficiency. We are also seeking to maximize the impact of our ESG programs and leading in the development of human capital, including our sustainability and social impact and DE&I strategies, which we are working to integrate across our organization. We are strengthening our capabilities in areas such as innovation, digital, eCommerce and data and analytics enabling us to be more responsive in today’s rapidly changing world. In particular, we believe our digital transformation is of paramount importance to our success going forward. We continue to invest behind our brands, including through advertising, and to develop initiatives to build strong relationships with consumers, dental, veterinary and skin health professionals and traditional and eCommerce retailers. We also continue to broaden our eCommerce offerings, including direct-to-consumer and subscription services. We continue to believe that growth opportunities are greater in those areas of the world in which economic development and rising consumer incomes expand the size and number of markets for our products.

We are also changing the way we work to drive growth and how we approach innovation with focus, empowerment, experimentation and digitization to respond to the dynamic retail landscape and the evolving preferences of our customers and consumers. The retail landscape, the ease of new entrants into the market in many of our categories and the evolving preferences of our customers and consumers demand that we work differently and faster in an agile, authentic and culturally relevant manner to drive innovation.

The investments needed to drive growth are supported through continuous, Company-wide initiatives to lower costs and increase effective asset utilization. Through these initiatives, which are referred to as our funding-the-growth initiatives, we seek to become even more effective and efficient throughout our businesses. These initiatives are designed to reduce costs associated with direct materials, indirect expenses, distribution and logistics and advertising and promotional materials, among other things, and encompass a wide range of projects, examples of which include raw material substitution, reduction of packaging materials, consolidating suppliers to leverage volumes and increasing manufacturing efficiency through SKU reductions and formulation simplification. We also continue to prioritize our investments in high growth segments within our Oral Care, Personal Care and Pet Nutrition businesses, including by expanding our portfolio in premium skin health. 

On January 27, 2022, the Board approved a targeted productivity program (the “2022 Global Productivity Initiative”). The program is intended to reallocate resources towards our strategic priorities and faster growth businesses, drive efficiencies in our operations and streamline our supply chain to reduce structural costs. Implementation of the 2022 Global Productivity Initiative, which is expected to be substantially completed by December 31, 2022, is projected to result in cumulative pre-tax charges, once all phases are approved and implemented, totaling between $200 and $240, which are currently estimated to be comprised of the following: employee-related costs, including severance, pension and other termination benefits (80%); asset-related costs, primarily accelerated depreciation and asset write-downs (10%); and other charges (10%), which include contract termination costs, consisting primarily of implementation-related charges resulting directly from exit activities and the implementation of new strategies. It is estimated that approximately 90% of the charges will result in cash expenditures. For more information regarding the 2022 Global Productivity Initiative, see “Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges” below. 

Significant Items Impacting Comparability

In the fourth quarter of 2021, we recorded a non-cash charge of $571 pretax ($518 aftertax) to adjust the carrying values of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible related to the Filorga skin health business. The impairment was due primarily to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Filorga business as a result of government restrictions and reduced consumer mobility, which negatively impacted consumption in the duty-free, travel retail and pharmacy channels. See Note 5, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

In 1990, our Canadian subsidiary (“CP Canada”), issued C$145 of Canadian dollar-denominated unsecured unsubordinated 12.85% guaranteed notes due October 4, 2030 (the “Canada notes”). In the third quarter of 2021, CP Canada redeemed the Canada notes and recorded a loss on the early extinguishment of debt of $75 pretax ($55 aftertax), which is included in Interest (income) expense, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income, representing the difference between the redemption price and the carrying amount of the debt extinguished.

26

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

In 2019, we received a favorable judgment regarding certain value-added tax previously paid in Brazil. As a result of this favorable judgment, during the fourth quarter of 2019, we filed an application with the Brazilian government to recover value-added tax previously paid and recorded a benefit. In May 2021, the Brazilian Supreme Court issued a clarifying ruling allowing a higher deduction of state value-added tax when determining the taxable base. In light of this ruling, we recorded an additional benefit of $26 pretax ($20 aftertax) in the year ended December 31, 2021.

The Global Growth and Efficiency Program, a multi-year restructuring program, concluded on December 31, 2019. Initiatives under the Global Growth and Efficiency Program fit within the program’s three focus areas of expanding commercial hubs, extending shared business services and streamlining global functions and optimizing the global supply chain and facilities. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we adjusted the accrual balances related to certain projects approved prior to the conclusion of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program to reflect our revised estimate of remaining liabilities, which resulted in a reduction of $16 ($13 aftertax) to restructuring accruals. For more information regarding the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, see Note 4, Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2020 includes $71 of income tax benefits, of which $45 relates to previously recorded foreign withholding taxes and $26 relates to a previously recorded valuation allowance against a deferred tax asset. As described more fully in “Results of Operations-Income Taxes,” below, both items were previously recorded in connection with the charge recorded in 2017 and revised in 2018 related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “TCJA”).

On January 31, 2020, we acquired Hello Products LLC (“hello”), an oral care business, for cash consideration of $351. The acquisition was financed with a combination of debt and cash. This acquisition is part of our strategy to focus on high growth segments within our Oral Care, Personal Care and Pet Nutrition businesses. See Note 3, Acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Outlook

Looking forward, we expect global macroeconomic, political and market conditions to remain challenging, especially due to COVID-19. During the year ended December 31, 2021, all of our divisions experienced significantly higher raw and packaging material costs. We also incurred increased logistics costs due to volume and capacity constraints in the shipping and logistics industry and higher eCommerce demand. We expect this difficult cost environment to continue in 2022.

While the global marketplace in which we operate has always been highly competitive, we continue to experience heightened competitive activity in certain markets from strong local competitors, from other large multinational companies, some of which have greater resources than we do, and from new entrants into the market in many of our categories. Such activities have included more aggressive product claims and marketing challenges, as well as increased promotional spending and geographic expansion. 

We have been negatively affected by changes in the policies and practices of our trade customers in key markets, such as inventory de-stocking, fulfillment requirements, limitations on access to shelf space, delisting of our products and certain environmental, sustainability, supply chain and packaging standards or initiatives. In addition, the retail landscape in many of our markets continues to evolve as a result of the rapid growth of eCommerce, changing consumer preferences (as consumers increasingly shop online and via mobile and social applications) and the increased presence of alternative retail channels, such as subscription services and direct-to-consumer businesses. These trends have been magnified due to COVID-19 in many of our geographies and we plan to continue to invest behind our digital and analytics capabilities and higher growth businesses, such as eCommerce. This rapid growth in eCommerce and the emergence of alternative retail channels have created and may continue to create pricing pressures and/or adversely affect our relationships with our key retailers.

In addition, given that approximately 70% of our Net sales originate in markets outside the U.S., we have experienced and will likely continue to experience volatile foreign currency fluctuations. As discussed above, we have also experienced higher raw and packaging material and logistics costs. While we have taken, and will continue to take, measures to mitigate the effect of these conditions, such as the 2022 Global Productivity Initiative and our funding the growth and revenue growth management initiatives, including additional pricing, in the current environment, it may become increasingly difficult to implement certain of these mitigation strategies. Should these conditions persist, they could adversely affect our future results. 

27

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

As discussed above, we continue to closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 on our business. During 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we saw a significant increase in demand across many of our categories, such as liquid hand soap, dish liquid, bar soap and cleaners. While consumer demand for most of these categories declined year-over-year in 2021, most remained above historical levels. We believe that some of this increased consumption is sustainable due to consumer behavior changes related to COVID-19. We expect increased volatility across all of our categories, and it is therefore difficult to predict category growth rates in the near term. COVID-19 has also disrupted our retail customers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers and other third parties; their ability to address COVID-19 and maintain their operations at full capacity has impacted and may continue to impact sales of and consumer access to our products. While we have taken, and will continue to take, measures to mitigate the effects of COVID-19, we cannot estimate with certainty the full extent of COVID-19’s impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. For more information about factors that could impact our business, including due to COVID-19, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report.

In summary, we believe that we are well prepared to meet the challenges ahead due to our strong financial condition, broad based experience operating in challenging environments, resilient global supply chain and focused business strategy. Our strategy is based on driving organic sales growth and long-term profitable growth through innovation within our core businesses, leveraging faster growth in adjacent categories, expanding in high-growth channels and markets and delivering margin expansion through operating leverage and efficiency. We are also seeking to maximize the impact of our environmental, social and governance programs and leading in the development of human capital, including our sustainability and social impact and DE&I strategies. Our commitment to these priorities, the strength of our brands, the breadth of our global footprint and a commitment to driving efficiency in cash generation should position us well to manage through the challenges presented by COVID-19 and increase shareholder value over time.

28

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Results of Operations

This section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K generally discusses 2021 and 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020. Discussions of 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019 that are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020.

Net Sales

Worldwide Net sales were $17,421 in 2021, up 6.0% from 2020, due to volume growth of 1.0%, net selling price increases of 3.5%, and positive foreign exchange of 1.5%. Organic sales (Net sales excluding, as applicable, the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions and divestments), a non-GAAP financial measure as discussed below, increased 4.5% in 2021.

Net sales in the Oral, Personal and Home Care product segment were $14,110 in 2021, up 4.0% from 2020, due to net selling price increases of 2.5% and positive foreign exchange of 1.5%, while volume was flat. Organic sales in the Oral, Personal and Home Care product segment increased 2.5% in 2021.

The increase in organic sales in 2021 versus 2020 was due to an increase in Oral Care organic sales, partially offset by a decrease in Personal Care organic sales. The increase in Oral Care was primarily due to organic sales growth in the toothpaste, manual toothbrush and mouthwash categories. The decrease in Personal Care was primarily due to organic sales declines in the liquid hand soap and bar soap categories. 

The Company’s share of the global toothpaste market was 39.4% for full year 2021, down 0.3 share points from full year 2020, and its share of the global manual toothbrush market was 30.9% for full year 2021, up 0.1 share points from full year 2020. Full year 2021 market shares in toothpaste were up in Europe and Africa/Eurasia and down in North America, Latin America and Asia Pacific versus full year 2020. In the manual toothbrush category, full year 2021 market shares were up in Latin America, Europe and Africa/Eurasia and down in North America and Asia Pacific versus full year 2020. For additional information regarding the Company’s use of market share data and limitations of such data, see “Market Share Information” below.

Net sales for Hill’s Pet Nutrition were $3,311 in 2021, an increase of 15.0% from 2020, driven by volume growth of 8.0%, net selling price increases of 5.5% and positive foreign exchange of 1.5%. Organic sales for Hill’s Pet Nutrition increased 13.5% in 2021.

The increase in organic sales in 2021 versus 2020 was primarily due to increases in organic sales in the Science Diet and Prescription Diet categories.

29

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Gross Profit/Margin

Worldwide Gross profit increased 4% to $10,375 in 2021 from $10,017 in 2020. Gross profit in 2020 included acquisition-related costs. Excluding acquisition-related costs in 2020, Gross profit increased to $10,375 in 2021 from $10,021 in 2020, reflecting an increase of $565 resulting from higher Net sales and a decrease of $211 resulting from lower Gross profit margin.

Worldwide Gross profit margin decreased to 59.6% in 2021 from 60.8% in 2020. This decrease in Gross profit margin was primarily due to higher raw and packaging material costs (450 bps), partially offset by cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives (210 bps) and higher pricing (120 bps).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

30

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 6% to $6,407 in 2021 from $6,019 in 2020. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2020 included benefits resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. Excluding benefits resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $6,407 in 2021 from $6,022 in 2020, reflecting higher overhead expenses of $312 and increased advertising investment of $73.

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales increased to 36.8% in 2021 from 36.5% in 2020. Excluding benefits resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales increased by 20 bps to 36.8% in 2021 as compared to 36.6% in 2020. This increase was due to higher overhead expenses (50 bps), driven by higher logistics costs, partially offset by decreased advertising investment (30 bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. In 2021, advertising investment decreased as a percentage of Net sales to 11.6% from 11.9% in 2020, while it increased in absolute terms by 3.7% to $2,021 as compared with $1,948 in 2020.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

31

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Other (Income) Expense, Net

Other (income) expense, net was $65 and $113 in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Other (income) expense, net in 2021 included a benefit related to a value-added tax matter in Brazil. Other (income) expense, net in 2020 included benefits resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and acquisition-related costs.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Excluding the items described above in both periods, as applicable, Other (income) expense, net was $91 in 2021 and $124 in 2020, comprised of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Goodwill & Indefinite-Lived Intangible Impairment Charges

The Company made revisions to the internal forecasts relating to its Filorga reporting unit during the fourth quarter of 2021 due primarily to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Filorga skin health business as a result of government restrictions and reduced consumer mobility, which negatively impacted consumption in the duty-free, travel retail and pharmacy channels. The Company concluded that the changes in circumstances in this reporting unit triggered the need for an interim impairment review of its indefinite-lived trademark and goodwill and, accordingly, performed an interim impairment test for the trademark as of December 31, 2021. The Company concluded that the carrying value of the trademark exceeded its estimated fair value, and recorded an impairment charge of $204, reducing the carrying value to approximately $588. After adjusting the carrying value of the trademark, the Company completed a quantitative impairment test for goodwill and recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $367 in the Filorga reporting unit, reducing the carrying value of goodwill to approximately $577. The Company continues to believe in the strength of the Filorga brand and is confident about its growth opportunities. See Note 5, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

32

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Operating Profit

Operating profit decreased 14% to $3,332 in 2021 from $3,885 in 2020. In 2021, Operating profit included a benefit related to a value-added tax matter in Brazil, and goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible impairment charges related to the Filorga reporting unit. In 2020, Operating profit included benefits resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and acquisition-related costs. Excluding these items in both periods, as applicable, Operating profit was flat in 2021.

 Operating profit margin was 19.1% in 2021, a decrease of 450 bps compared with 23.6% in 2020. Excluding the items described above in both periods, as applicable, Operating profit margin was 22.3% in 2021, a decrease of 120 bps from 23.5% in 2020. This decrease in Operating profit in 2021 was primarily due to a decrease in Gross profit (120 bps), as a percentage of Net sales.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Non-Service Related Postretirement Costs

Non-service related postretirement costs were $70 in 2021 compared to $74 in 2020. 

33

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Interest (Income) Expense, Net

Interest (income) expense, net was $175 in 2021 compared with $164 in 2020. In 2021 and 2020, Interest (income) expense, net included losses on the early extinguishment of debt. Excluding the losses on the early extinguishment of debt, in both periods, Interest (income) expense, net was $100 in 2021 compared to $141 in 2020, primarily due to lower average interest rates on debt. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

34

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Income Taxes

The effective income tax rate was 24.3% in 2021 and 21.6% in 2020. As reflected in the table below, the non-GAAP effective income tax rate was 22.0% in 2021 and 23.6% in 2020. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______ 

(1) The income tax effect on non-GAAP items is calculated based upon the tax laws and statutory income tax rates applicable in the tax jurisdiction(s) of the underlying non-GAAP adjustment. 

(2) The impact of non-GAAP items on the Company’s effective tax rate represents the difference in the effective tax rate calculated with and without the non-GAAP adjustment on Income before income taxes and Provision for income taxes.

The provision for income taxes for 2020 includes $71 of income tax benefits, of which $45 relates to previously recorded foreign withholding taxes and $26 relates to a previously recorded valuation allowance against a deferred tax asset. As described more fully below, both items were previously recorded in connection with the charge recorded by the Company in 2017 and revised in 2018 related to the TCJA.

As part of the previously recorded charge for the TCJA, the Company had provided for foreign withholding taxes expected to be paid on the remittance of earnings from certain overseas subsidiaries no longer deemed indefinitely reinvested. As a result of a reorganization of the ownership structure of certain foreign subsidiaries, the Company determined that no withholding taxes will be due on the remittance by certain subsidiaries of earnings previously deemed reinvested and, accordingly, reversed $45 of previously recorded foreign withholding taxes in the first quarter of 2020.

Also as part of the previously recorded charge for the TCJA, the Company provided a valuation allowance against a deferred tax asset related to foreign tax credit carry-forwards that the Company did not expect to be able to use due to changes made by the TCJA. As a result of a new operating structure implemented within one of the Company’s divisions, the Company believes the use of these foreign tax credit carry-forwards will not be limited in the future and, accordingly, reversed the previously recorded valuation allowance of $26 in the first quarter of 2020.

The effective income tax rate in all years benefited from tax planning associated with the Company’s global business initiatives.

35

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and Earnings per share

Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company of $2,166, or $2.55 per share on a diluted basis, in 2021 decreased from $2,695, or $3.14 per share on a diluted basis, in 2020. In 2021, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company included aftertax goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible impairment charges, an aftertax benefit related to a value-added tax matter in Brazil and an aftertax loss on the early extinguishment of debt. In 2020, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company included aftertax benefits resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, aftertax acquisition-related costs, a tax benefit related to subsidiary and operating structure initiatives and an aftertax loss on the early extinguishment of debt.

Excluding the items described above in both periods, as applicable, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company increased 3% to $2,719 in 2021 from $2,633 in 2020, and Earnings per common share on a diluted basis increased 5% to $3.21 in 2021 from $3.06 in 2020.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______

(1) The income tax effect on non-GAAP items is calculated based upon the tax laws and statutory income tax rates applicable in the tax jurisdiction(s) of the underlying non-GAAP adjustment.

(2) The impact of non-GAAP adjustments on diluted earnings per share may not necessarily equal the difference between “GAAP” and “non-GAAP” as a result of rounding.

36

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Segment Results

The Company markets its products in over 200 countries and territories throughout the world in two product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, including Operating profit. The Company uses Operating profit as a measure of the operating segment performance because it excludes the impact of corporate-driven decisions related to interest expense and income taxes.

Oral, Personal and Home Care

 North America[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales in North America decreased 1.0% in 2021 to $3,694, driven by volume declines of 4.0%, partially offset by net selling price increases of 2.0% and positive foreign exchange of 1.0%. Organic sales in North America decreased 2.0% in 2021. The organic sales decline was largely driven by the United States.

The decrease in organic sales in North America in 2021 versus 2020 was primarily due to decreases in Personal Care and Home Care organic sales. The decrease in Personal Care was primarily due to organic sales declines in the liquid hand soap and bar soap categories. The decrease in Home Care was primarily due to organic sales declines in the hand dish category, partially offset by organic sales growth in the liquid cleaner category. 

Operating profit in North America decreased 24% in 2021 to $754, or 600 bps to 20.4% as a percentage of Net sales. This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to a decrease in Gross profit (330 bps) and an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses (300 bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. This decrease in Gross profit was primarily due to higher raw and packaging material costs (600 bps), partially offset by cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives (190 bps) and higher pricing. This increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses was due to higher overhead expenses (290 bps), primarily driven by higher logistics costs, and increased advertising investment (10 bps).

37

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

 Latin America[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales in Latin America increased 7.0% in 2021 to $3,663, as volume growth of 1.0% and net selling price increases of 7.0% were partially offset by negative foreign exchange of 1.0%. Organic sales in Latin America increased 8.0% in 2021. Organic sales growth was led by Brazil, Mexico, Argentina and Colombia.

The increase in organic sales in Latin America in 2021 versus 2020 was due to increases in Oral Care, Personal Care and Home Care organic sales. The increase in Oral Care was primarily due to organic sales growth in the toothpaste, manual toothbrush and mouthwash categories. The increase in Personal Care was primarily due to organic sales growth in the bar soap and underarm protection categories. The increase in Home Care was primarily due to organic sales growth in the fabric softener and liquid cleaner categories. 

Operating profit in Latin America increased 4% in 2021 to $1,012, while as a percentage of Net sales it decreased 90 bps to 27.6%. This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was due to a decrease in Gross profit (150 bps), partially offset by a decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses (20 bps) and a decrease in Other (income) expense, net (40 bps), all as a percentage of Net sales. This decrease in Gross profit was primarily due to higher raw and packaging material costs (740 bps), which were partially offset by cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives (330 bps) and higher pricing. This decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses was due to decreased advertising investment (70 bps), partially offset by higher overhead expenses (50 bps), primarily driven by higher logistics costs. The decrease in Other (income) expense, net was primarily due to a value added tax refund.

38

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

 Europe[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales in Europe increased 3.5% in 2021 to $2,841, as Net selling prices were flat and positive foreign exchange of 4.0% was partially offset by volume declines of 0.5%. Organic sales in Europe decreased 0.5% in 2021. Organic sales declines were driven by the Filorga duty-free business and Germany, partially offset by organic sales growth in Poland. 

The decrease in organic sales in Europe in 2021 versus 2020 was due to decreases in Personal Care and Home Care organic sales, partially offset by an increase in Oral Care organic sales. The decrease in Personal Care was primarily due to organic sales declines in the liquid hand soap, body wash, skin health and bar soap categories. The decrease in Home Care was primarily due to organic sales declines in the bleach and hand dish categories, partially offset by organic sales growth in the fabric softener category. The increase in Oral Care was primarily due to organic sales growth in the toothpaste, prescription dental and manual toothbrush categories.

Operating profit in Europe increased 5% in 2021 to $682, or 30 bps to 24.0% as a percentage of Net sales. This increase in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to a decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses (110 bps), partially offset by a decrease in Gross profit (100 bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. This decrease in Gross profit was primarily due to higher raw and packaging material costs (330 bps), partially offset by cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives (220 bps). This decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses was largely due to decreased advertising investment (100 bps). 

39

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

 Asia Pacific[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales in Asia Pacific increased 6.0% in 2021 to $2,867, driven by volume growth of 3.0% and positive foreign exchange of 3.0%, while net selling prices were flat. Organic sales in Asia Pacific increased 3.0% in 2021. Organic sales growth was led by India and the Greater China region.

The increase in organic sales in 2021 versus 2020 was primarily due to an increase in Oral Care organic sales. The increase in Oral Care was driven by organic sales growth in the toothpaste, manual toothbrush and mouthwash categories. 

Operating profit in Asia Pacific increased 9% in 2021 to $844, or 80 bps to 29.4% of Net sales. This increase in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was due primarily to an increase in Gross profit (50 bps) and a decrease in Other (income) expense, net (40 bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. This increase in Gross profit was primarily due to cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives (230 bps), mix (20 bps) and other, partially offset by higher raw and packaging material costs (230 bps). The decrease in Other (income) expense, net was primarily due to a gain on an investment. 

40

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

 Africa/Eurasia[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales in Africa/Eurasia increased 6.5% in 2021 to $1,045, as volume growth of 1.0% and net selling price increases of 6.0% were partially offset by negative foreign exchange of 0.5%. Organic sales in Africa/Eurasia increased 7.0% in 2021. Organic sales growth was led by Turkiye, Nigeria and South Africa.

The increase in organic sales in 2021 versus 2020 was primarily due to an increase in Oral Care organic sales. The increase in Oral Care was primarily due to organic sales growth in the toothpaste and manual toothbrush categories. 

Operating profit in Africa/Eurasia decreased 1% in 2021 to $203, or 160 bps to 19.4% of Net sales. This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to a decrease in Gross profit (170 bps), partially offset by a decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses (60 bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. This decrease in Gross profit was primarily due to higher raw and packaging material costs (590 bps), partially offset by higher pricing and cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives (190 bps). This decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses was due to decreased advertising investment (140 bps), partially offset by higher overhead expenses (80 bps), primarily driven by higher logistics costs.

41

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

 Hill’s Pet Nutrition[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales for Hill’s Pet Nutrition increased 15.0% in 2021 to $3,311, driven by volume growth of 8.0%, net selling price increases of 5.5% and positive foreign exchange of 1.5%. Organic sales in Hill’s Pet Nutrition increased 13.5% in 2021. Organic sales growth was led by the United States and Europe.

The increase in organic sales in 2021 versus 2020 was due to organic sales growth in the Science Diet and Prescription Diet categories.

Operating profit in Hill’s Pet Nutrition increased 14% in 2021 to $901, while as a percentage of Net sales it decreased 30 bps to 27.2%. This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was due to a decrease in Gross profit (40 bps) and an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses (30 bps), partially offset by a decrease in Other (income) expense, net (40 bps), all as a percentage of Net sales. This decrease in Gross profit was primarily due to higher raw and packaging material costs (300 bps), partially offset by higher pricing and cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives (100 bps). This increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses was due to increased advertising investment (110 bps), partially offset by lower overhead expenses (80 bps). This decrease in Other (income) expense, net was primarily due to the portion of costs incurred in 2020 in connection with the voluntary recall of selected canned dog food products due to potentially elevated levels of Vitamin D resulting from a supplier error for which Hill’s was not indemnified.

42

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

 Corporate[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Corporate operations include Corporate overhead costs, research and development costs, stock-based compensation expense related to stock options and restricted stock unit awards, restructuring and related implementation costs and gains and losses on sales of non-core product lines. The components of Operating profit (loss) for the Corporate segment are presented as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

43

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges 

Global Productivity Initiative

 On January 27, 2022, the Board approved the 2022 Global Productivity Initiative. The program is intended to reallocate resources towards the Company’s strategic priorities and faster growth businesses, drive efficiencies in the Company’s operations and streamline the Company’s supply chain to reduce structural costs. 

 Implementation of the Global Productivity Initiative, which is expected to be substantially completed by December 31, 2022, is projected to result in cumulative pre-tax charges, once all phases are approved and implemented, totaling between $200 and $240, which are currently estimated to be comprised of the following: employee-related costs, including severance, pension and other termination benefits (80%); asset-related costs, primarily accelerated depreciation and asset write-downs (10%); and other charges (10%), which include contract termination costs, consisting primarily of implementation-related charges resulting directly from exit activities and the implementation of new strategies. It is estimated that approximately 90% of the charges will result in cash expenditures. Annualized pre-tax savings are projected to be in the range of $90 to $110. 

44

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

This Annual Report on Form 10-K discusses certain financial measures on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis. The Company uses the non-GAAP financial measures described below internally in its budgeting process, to evaluate segment and overall operating performance and as a factor in determining compensation. The Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company’s underlying business performance and trends; however, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies. 

Net sales growth (GAAP) and organic sales growth (Net sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions and divestments) (non-GAAP) are discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management believes the organic sales growth measure provides investors and analysts with useful supplemental information regarding the Company’s underlying sales trends by presenting sales growth excluding, the external factor of foreign exchange, as well as the impact of acquisitions and divestments, as applicable. A reconciliation of organic sales growth to Net sales growth for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 is provided below.

Worldwide Gross profit, Gross profit margin, Selling, general and administrative expenses, Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales, Other (income) expense, net, Operating profit, Operating profit margin, Interest (income) expense, net, effective income tax rate, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and Earnings per share on a diluted basis are discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K both on a GAAP basis and excluding, as applicable, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible impairment charges, a benefit related to a value-added tax matter in Brazil, the benefits resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, a benefit related to a reorganization of the ownership structure of certain foreign subsidiaries and a new operating structure implemented within one of the Company’s divisions, acquisition-related costs and losses on the early extinguishment of debt. These non-GAAP financial measures exclude items that, either by their nature or amount, management would not expect to occur as part of the Company’s normal business on a regular basis, such as restructuring charges, charges for certain litigation and tax matters, gains and losses from certain acquisitions, divestitures and certain unusual, non-recurring items. Investors and analysts use these financial measures in assessing the Company’s business performance, and management believes that presenting these financial measures on a non-GAAP basis provides them with useful supplemental information to enhance their understanding of the Company’s underlying business performance and trends. These non-GAAP financial measures also enhance the ability to compare period-to-period financial results. A reconciliation of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 is presented within the applicable section of Results of Operations.

45

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

The following tables provide a quantitative reconciliation of Net sales growth to organic sales growth for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 versus the prior year:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Market Share Information 

Management uses market share information as a key indicator to monitor business health and performance. References to market share in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based on a combination of consumption and market share data provided by third-party vendors, primarily Nielsen, and internal estimates. All market share references represent the percentage of the dollar value of sales of our products, relative to all product sales in the category in the countries in which the Company competes and purchases data (excluding Venezuela from all periods).

Market share data is subject to limitations on the availability of up-to-date information. In particular, market share data is currently not generally available for certain retail channels, such as eCommerce or certain discounters. The Company measures year-to-date market shares from January 1 of the relevant year through the most recent period for which market share data is available, which typically reflects a lag time of one or two months. The Company believes that the third-party vendors we use to provide data are reliable, but we have not verified the accuracy or completeness of the data or any assumptions underlying the data. In certain limited circumstances, the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the ability of our third-party vendors to provide the Company with reliable updated market share data. In addition, market share information calculated by the Company may be different from market share information calculated by other companies due to differences in category definitions, the use of data from different countries, internal estimates and other factors.

46

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company expects cash flow from operations and debt issuances will be sufficient to meet foreseeable business operating and recurring cash needs (including for debt service, dividends, capital expenditures, share repurchases and acquisitions). The Company believes its strong cash generation and financial position should continue to allow it broad access to global credit and capital markets.

Cash Flow

Net cash provided by operations decreased to $3,325 in 2021 as compared to $3,719 in 2020, primarily due to changes in working capital. The Company’s working capital as a percentage of Net sales was (2.7)% in 2021 and (4.4)% in 2020. This change in working capital as a percentage of Net sales is primarily due to lower accrued liabilities, partially offset by higher accounts payable and higher prepaid expenses. The Company defines working capital as the difference between current assets (excluding Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, the latter of which is reported in Other current assets) and current liabilities (excluding short-term debt). 

Investing activities used $592 of cash in 2021 compared to $779 during 2020. Investing activities in 2020 included the acquisition of hello for cash consideration of $351 as part of the Company’s continued strategy to focus on the high growth segments within its Oral Care, Personal Care and Pet Nutrition businesses. This acquisition was financed with a combination of debt and cash.

Capital expenditures in the year ended December 31, 2021 were $567, an increase from $410 in 2020. Capital expenditures increased in 2021 primarily due to capacity expansion of manufacturing facilities and sustainability projects. Capital expenditures for 2022 are expected to be approximately 4.0% of Net sales. The Company continues to focus its capital spending on projects that are expected to yield high aftertax returns.

Financing activities used $2,774 of cash during 2021 compared to $2,919 during 2020. The decrease in cash used was primarily due to a decrease in net payments on debt, partially offset by higher share repurchases, net in 2021 as compared to 2020.

In 2020, as a result of the incremental debt related to recent acquisitions, net of proceeds from the exercise of stock options, the Company moderated its share repurchases, net. In addition, due to the initial uncertainties resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and our intent to preserve cash, the Company discontinued all share repurchases other than those pursuant to equity plans during the second quarter of 2020. The Company resumed its share repurchases, at a moderated level, net in the third quarter of 2020. Share repurchases, net returned to historical levels in 2021.

Long-term debt, including the current portion, decreased to $7,206 as of December 31, 2021, as compared to $7,343 as of December 31, 2020, and total debt decreased to $7,245 as of December 31, 2021 as compared to $7,601 as of December 31, 2020. The Company’s debt issuances and redemptions support the Company’s capital structure objectives of funding its business and growth initiatives while minimizing its risk-adjusted cost of capital.

During the fourth quarter of 2021, the Company issued €500 of eight-year notes at a fixed coupon rate of 0.300% (the “Sustainability Bond”). The debt issuance was under the Company’s shelf registration statement. An amount equal to the net proceeds of the Sustainability Bond will be used to finance or refinance, in part or in full, new and existing projects and programs with distinct environmental or social benefits pursuant to the Company’s Sustainable Financing Framework. 

During the fourth quarter of 2021, the Company redeemed prior to maturity all of its outstanding 0.000% notes due 2021 with a principal amount of €500, originally issued on November 12, 2019. The redemption was financed with commercial paper borrowings. The redemption price was equal to the carrying amount of the debt extinguished.

In 1990, the Company’s Canadian subsidiary (“CP Canada”), issued C$145 of Canadian dollar-denominated unsecured unsubordinated 12.85% guaranteed notes due October 4, 2030 (the “Canada notes”). During the third quarter of 2021, CP Canada redeemed the Canada notes and recorded a loss on the early extinguishment of debt of $75, which is included in Interest (income) expense, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income, representing the difference between the redemption price and the carrying amount of the debt extinguished.

47

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company redeemed prior to maturity all of its outstanding 2.450% notes due 2021 with a principal amount of $300, originally issued on November 8, 2011, and all of its outstanding 2.300% notes due 2022 with a principal amount of $500, originally issued on May 3, 2012. These redemptions were financed with commercial paper borrowings and cash. The Company recorded a loss on this early extinguishment of debt of $23, which is included in Interest (income) expense, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income, representing the difference between the redemption price and the carrying amount of the debt extinguished.

At December 31, 2021, the Company had access to unused domestic and foreign lines of credit of $3,457 (including under the facility discussed below) and could also issue long-term debt pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement. In August 2021, the Company entered into a new $3,000 five-year revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks for a five-year term expiring August 2026, which replaced, on substantially similar terms, the Company’s $2,650 revolving credit facility that was scheduled to expire in November 2024. Commitment fees related to the credit facility were not material. The Company’s $1,500 364-day credit facility with a syndicate of banks expired in August 2021 and was not renewed.

Domestic and foreign commercial paper outstanding was $1,204 and $1,389 as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively. The average daily balances outstanding of commercial paper in 2021 and 2020 were $2,052 and $1,050, respectively. The Company classifies commercial paper and certain current maturities of notes payable as long-term debt when it has the intent and ability to refinance such obligations on a long-term basis, including, if necessary, by utilizing its available lines of credit (under the facilities discussed above).

The following is a summary of the Company’s commercial paper and global short-term borrowings as of December 31, 2021 and 2020:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Commercial paper included a current portion of $250, included in Notes and loans payable, as of December 31, 2020.

Certain of the agreements with respect to the Company’s bank borrowings contain financial and other covenants as well as cross-default provisions. Noncompliance with these requirements could ultimately result in the acceleration of amounts owed. The Company is in full compliance with all such requirements and believes the likelihood of noncompliance is remote. Refer to Note 6, Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about the Company’s long-term debt and credit facilities.

Dividend payments in 2021 were $1,679, an increase from $1,654 in 2020. Dividend payments increased to $1.79 per share in 2021 from $1.75 per share in 2020. In the first quarter of 2021, the Company increased the quarterly common stock dividend to $0.45 per share from $0.44 per share, effective in the second quarter of 2021. 

The Company repurchases shares of its common stock in the open market and in private transactions to maintain its targeted capital structure and to fulfill certain requirements of its compensation and benefit plans. On June 18, 2018, the Board authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company’s common stock having an aggregate purchase price of up to $5,000 under the 2018 Program. The Board also has authorized share repurchases on an ongoing basis to fulfill certain requirements of the Company’s compensation and benefit programs. The shares are repurchased from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions at the Company’s discretion, subject to market conditions, customary blackout periods and other factors.

Aggregate share repurchases in 2021 consisted of approximately 16.4 million common shares under the 2018 Program and 0.3 million common shares to fulfill the requirements of compensation and benefit plans, for a total purchase price of $1,320. Aggregate repurchases in 2020 consisted of approximately 18.2 million common shares under the 2018 Program 

48

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

and 0.4 million common shares to fulfill the requirements of compensation and benefit plans, for a total purchase price of $1,476. Share repurchases net of proceeds from exercise of stock options were $896 and $602 in 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Cash and cash equivalents decreased $56 during 2021 to $832 at December 31, 2021, compared to $888 at December 31, 2020. Cash and cash equivalents held by the Company’s foreign subsidiaries was $784 and $872, respectively, at December 31, 2021 and 2020.

The following represents the scheduled maturities of the Company’s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______

(1)The Company classifies commercial paper and notes maturing within the next 12 months as long-term debt when it has the intent and ability to refinance such obligations on a long-term basis. The amounts in this table exclude such obligations.

(2)Includes the net interest payments on fixed and variable rate debt and associated interest rate swaps. Interest payments associated with floating rate instruments are based on management’s best estimate of projected interest rates for the remaining term of variable rate debt.

(3)The Company had outstanding contractual obligations with suppliers at the end of 2021 for the purchase of raw, packaging and other materials and services in the normal course of business. These purchase obligation amounts represent only those items which are based on agreements that are legally binding and that specify all significant terms including minimum quantity, price and term and do not represent total anticipated purchases.

Long-term liabilities associated with the Company’s postretirement plans are excluded from the table above due to the uncertainty of the timing of these cash disbursements. The amount and timing of cash funding related to these benefit plans will generally depend on local regulatory requirements, various economic assumptions (the most significant of which are detailed in “Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates” below) and voluntary Company contributions. Based on current information, the Company is not required to make a mandatory contribution to its qualified U.S. pension plan in 2021. The Company does not expect to make any voluntary contributions to its U.S. postretirement plans in 2022. In addition, total benefit payments expected to be paid from the Company’s assets to participants in unfunded plans are estimated to be approximately $89 for the year ending December 31, 2022.

Additionally, liabilities for unrecognized income tax benefits are excluded from the table above as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount or timing of a settlement of such liabilities. See Note 11, Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

As more fully described in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has commitments and contingencies with respect to lawsuits, environmental matters, taxes and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business.

49

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company does not have off-balance sheet financing or unconsolidated special purpose entities.

Managing Foreign Currency, Interest Rate, Commodity Price and Credit Risk Exposure

The Company is exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity price fluctuations. Volatility relating to these exposures is managed on a global basis by utilizing a number of techniques, including working capital management, selling price increases, selective borrowings in local currencies and entering into selective derivative instrument transactions, issued with standard features, in accordance with the Company’s treasury and risk management policies. The Company’s treasury and risk management policies prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes and leveraged derivatives for any purpose.

The sensitivity of our financial instruments to market fluctuations is discussed below. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 7, Fair Value Measurements and Financial Instruments to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of derivatives and hedging policies and fair value measurements.

Foreign Exchange Risk

As the Company markets its products in over 200 countries and territories, it is exposed to currency fluctuations related to manufacturing and selling its products in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Company manages its foreign currency exposures through a combination of cost-containment measures, sourcing strategies, selling price increases and the hedging of certain costs in an effort to minimize the impact on earnings of foreign currency rate movements. See “Results of Operations” above for a discussion of the foreign exchange impact on Net sales in each operating segment.

The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates with resulting translation gains and losses accumulated in a separate component of shareholders’ equity. Income and expense items are translated into U.S. dollars at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.

The Company primarily utilizes foreign currency contracts, including forward and swap contracts, option contracts, foreign and local currency deposits and local currency borrowings to hedge portions of its exposures relating to foreign currency purchases, assets and liabilities created in the normal course of business and the net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. The duration of foreign currency contracts generally does not exceed 12 months and the contracts are valued using observable market rates.

The Company’s foreign currency forward contracts that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting resulted in a net unrealized gain of $12 and net unrealized loss of $11 at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss) and are reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the underlying hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. At the end of 2021, an unfavorable 10% change in exchange rates would have resulted in a net unrealized loss of $76.

50

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Interest Rate Risk

The Company manages its mix of fixed and floating rate debt against its target with debt issuances and by entering into interest rate swaps in order to mitigate fluctuations in earnings and cash flows that may result from interest rate volatility. The Company utilizes forward-starting interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of variability in interest rate for future debt issuances. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps generally match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt, and the swaps are valued using observable benchmark rates.

Based on year-end 2021 variable rate debt levels, a 1% increase in interest rates would have increased Interest (income) expense, net by $14 in 2021.

 The Company is assessing the impact of the discontinuation of LIBOR as a benchmark interest rate on its current financial instruments and contractual arrangements, including debt outstanding, and believes it will not be material as the Company does not have significant exposure to LIBOR in either its debt or other financing arrangements. The Company will continue to monitor its exposure in subsequent periods.

Commodity Price Risk

The Company is exposed to price volatility related to raw materials used in production, such as essential oils, resins, tropical oils, pulp, tallow, corn, poultry and soybeans. The Company manages its raw material exposures through a combination of cost containment measures, ongoing productivity initiatives and the limited use of commodity hedging contracts. Futures contracts are used on a limited basis, primarily in the Hill’s Pet Nutrition segment, to manage volatility related to anticipated raw material inventory purchases of certain traded commodities.

The Company’s open commodity derivative contracts that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting resulted in a net unrealized gain of $2 and $3 at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. At the end of 2021, an unfavorable 10% change in commodity futures prices would have resulted in a net unrealized loss of $1.

Credit Risk

The Company is exposed to the risk of credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to financial instrument contracts; however, nonperformance is considered unlikely and any nonperformance is unlikely to be material as it is the Company’s policy to contract with diverse, credit-worthy counterparties based upon both strong credit ratings and other credit considerations. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In November 2021, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2021-10, “Government Assistance (Topic 832).” This ASU requires increased disclosure on an annual basis about transactions with domestic, foreign, local, regional and national governments, including entities related to those governments and intergovernmental organizations, that are accounted for by applying a grant or contribution accounting model by analogy to other accounting guidance. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2022 and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

In October 2021, the FASB issued ASU No. 2021-08, “Business Combinations (Topic 805): Accounting for Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities from Contracts with Customers.” This ASU requires contract assets and contract liabilities acquired in a business combination to be recognized and measured by the acquirer on the acquisition date in accordance with ASU No. 2016-10, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).” This guidance is effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2023 and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

In January 2021, the FASB issued ASU No. 2021-01, “Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Scope.” This ASU clarifies that certain optional expedients and exceptions in Topic 848 apply to derivatives that are affected by the discounting transition. This guidance was effective upon issuance for the Company and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

51

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

In October 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-10, “Codification Improvements.” This ASU improves the consistency of the codification topics by including all disclosure guidance in the appropriate disclosure section and also clarifies the application of various provisions in the codification. This guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2021 and did not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-04, “Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting.” The ASU provides optional expedients and exceptions for applying generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) to contracts, hedging relationships and other transactions that reference LIBOR or another reference rate expected to be discontinued because of reference rate reform. This guidance was effective upon issuance of this ASU for contract modifications and hedging relationships on a prospective basis and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

In January 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-01, “Investments-Equity Securities (Topic 321), Investments-Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323), and Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815)-Clarifying the Interactions between Topic 321, Topic 323, and Topic 815.” The guidance provides clarification of the interaction of rules for equity securities, the equity method of accounting and forward contracts and purchase options on certain types of securities. This guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2021 and did not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-12, “Income taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes.” This ASU simplifies the accounting for income taxes by removing certain exceptions to the general principles in ASC 740 and also clarifies and amends existing guidance to improve consistent application. This guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2021 and did not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to use judgment and make estimates. The level of uncertainty in estimates and assumptions increases with the length of time until the underlying transactions are completed. Actual results could ultimately differ from those estimates. The accounting policies that are most critical in the preparation of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements are those that are both important to the presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and require significant or complex judgments and estimates on the part of management. The Company’s critical accounting policies are reviewed periodically with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

In certain instances, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America allow for the selection of alternative accounting methods. The Company’s significant policies that involve the selection of alternative methods are accounting for inventories and shipping and handling costs.

▪The Company accounts for inventories using both the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method (75% of inventories) and the last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) method (25% of inventories). There would have been no material impact on reported earnings for 2021 or 2020 had all inventories been accounted for under the FIFO method.

▪Shipping and handling costs may be reported as either a component of Cost of sales or Selling, general and administrative expenses. The Company accounts for such costs, primarily related to warehousing and outbound freight, as fulfillment costs and reports them in the Consolidated Statements of Income as a component of Selling, general and administrative expenses. Accordingly, the Company’s Gross profit margin is not comparable with the gross profit margin of those companies that include shipping and handling charges in cost of sales. If such costs had been included as a component of Cost of sales, the Company’s Gross profit margin would have been lower by 968 bps in 2021, by 845 bps in 2020, and 810 bps in 2019, with no impact on reported earnings.

 The areas of accounting that involve significant or complex judgments and estimates are pensions and other retiree benefit cost assumptions, stock-based compensation, asset impairments, uncertain tax positions, tax valuation allowances, legal and other contingency reserves.

52

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

▪In accounting for pension and other postretirement benefit costs, the most significant actuarial assumptions are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The discount rate used to measure the benefit obligation for U.S. defined benefit plans was 2.98% and 2.65% as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The discount rate used to measure the benefit obligation for other U.S. postretirement plans was 3.06%, and 2.88% as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Discount rates used for the U.S. and international defined benefit and other postretirement plans are based on a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high-quality bonds whose projected cash flows approximate the projected benefit payments of the plans. The assumed expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for U.S. plans was 5.70% as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. In determining the expected long-term rate of return, the Company considers the nature of the plans’ investments and the historical rate of return.

Average annual rates of return for the U.S. plans for the most recent 1-year, 5-year, 10-year, 15-year and 25-year periods were 3%, 8%, 8%, 6% and 7%, respectively. In addition, the current assumed rate of return for the U.S. plans is based upon the nature of the plans’ investments with a target asset allocation of approximately 76% in fixed income securities, 21% in equity securities and 3% in real estate and other investments. A 1% change in the assumed rate of return on plan assets of the U.S. pension plans would impact future Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company by approximately $18. A 1% change in the discount rate for the U.S. pension plans and U.S. other retiree benefit plan would impact future Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company by approximately $2 and $10, respectively. A third assumption is the long-term rate of compensation increase, a change in which would partially offset the impact of a change in either the discount rate or the expected long-term rate of return. This rate was 3.50% as of December 31, 2021, and 2020. Refer to Note 10, Retirement Plans and Other Retiree Benefits to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company’s pension and other postretirement plans.

▪The assumption requiring the most judgment in accounting for other postretirement benefits (other than the discount rate noted above) is the medical cost trend rate. The Company reviews external data and its own historical trends for health care costs to determine the medical cost trend rate. The assumed rate of increase for the U.S. postretirement benefit plans is 6.00% for 2022, declining to 4.75% by 2026 and remaining at 4.75% for the years thereafter. The effect on the total of service cost and interest costs components of a 1% increase in the assumed long-term medical cost trend rate would decrease Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company by $11.

▪The Company recognizes the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, such as stock options and restricted stock units (both performance-based and time-vested), based on the fair value of those awards at the date of grant. The Company uses the Black-Scholes-Merton (“Black-Scholes”) option pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock option awards. The weighted-average estimated fair value of each stock option award granted in the year ended December 31, 2021 was $11.11. The Black-Scholes model uses various assumptions to estimate the fair value of stock option awards. These assumptions include the expected term of stock option awards, expected volatility rate, risk-free interest rate and expected dividend yield. While these assumptions do not require significant judgment, as the significant inputs are determined from historical experience or independent third-party sources, changes in these inputs could result in significant changes in the fair value of stock option awards. A one-year change in expected term would result in a change in fair value of approximately 4%. A 1% change in volatility would change fair value by approximately 6%. The Company uses a Monte-Carlo simulation to determine the fair value of performance-based restricted stock units at the date of grant. The Monte-Carlo simulation model uses substantially the same inputs as the Black-Scholes model.

▪Goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets, such as the Company’s global brands, are subject to impairment tests at least annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate an asset may be impaired. In assessing impairment, the Company performs either a quantitative or a qualitative analysis.

53

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Determining the fair value of the Company’s reporting units for goodwill and the fair value of its intangible assets requires significant estimates and judgments by management. When a quantitative analysis is performed, the Company generally uses the income approach, which requires several estimates, including future cash flows consistent with management’s strategic plans, sales growth rates, foreign exchange rates and the selection of royalty rates and a discount rate. Estimating sales growth rates requires significant judgment by management in areas such as future economic conditions, category growth rates, product pricing, consumer tastes and preferences and future expansion expectations. In selecting an appropriate royalty rate, the Company considers recent market transactions for similar brands and products. In determining an appropriate discount rate, the Company considers the current interest rate environment and its estimated cost of capital. Other qualitative factors the Company considers, in addition to those quantitative measures discussed above, include assessments of general macroeconomic conditions, industry-specific considerations and historical financial performance. The Company generally engages a third-party valuation firm to assist it in determining the fair value of intangible assets acquired in business combinations.

In determining the fair value of the Company’s reporting units, fair value is also determined using the market approach, which is generally derived from metrics of comparable publicly traded companies. As multiple valuation methodologies are used, the Company also performs a qualitative analysis comparing the fair value of a reporting unit under each method to assess its reasonableness and ensure consistency of results.

Determining the expected life of a brand requires management judgment and is based on an evaluation of several factors including market share, brand history, future expansion expectations, the level of in-market support anticipated by management, legal or regulatory restrictions and the economic environment in the countries in which the brand is sold. 

The Company made revisions to the internal forecasts relating to its Filorga reporting unit during the fourth quarter of 2021 due primarily to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Filorga skin health business as a result of government restrictions and reduced consumer mobility, which negatively impacted consumption in the duty-free, travel retail and pharmacy channels. The Company concluded that the changes in circumstances in this reporting unit triggered the need for an interim impairment review of its indefinite-lived trademark and goodwill and, accordingly, performed an interim impairment test for the trademark as of December 31, 2021. The Company concluded that the carrying value of the trademark exceeded its estimated fair value, and recorded an impairment charge of $204, reducing the carrying value to approximately $588. After adjusting the carrying value of the trademark, the Company completed a quantitative impairment test for goodwill and recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $367 in the Filorga reporting unit, reducing the carrying value of goodwill to approximately $577. 

Except for the Filorga skin health business, as described above, the estimated fair value of the Company’s reporting units substantially exceeds the recorded carrying value. The fair value of the Company’s indefinite-life intangible assets other than Filorga exceeds their recorded carrying value by at least 20%. Therefore, it is not reasonably likely that significant changes in these estimates would occur that would result in an impairment charge related to these assets.

▪The recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions involves consideration of the amounts and probabilities of various outcomes that could be realized upon ultimate resolution.

▪Tax valuation allowances are established to reduce deferred tax assets, such as tax loss carryforwards, to net realizable value. Factors considered in estimating net realizable value include historical results by tax jurisdiction, carryforward periods, income tax strategies and forecasted taxable income.

54

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

▪Legal and other contingency reserves are based on management’s assessment of the risk of potential loss, which includes consultation with outside legal counsel and other advisors. Such assessments are reviewed each period and revised based on current facts and circumstances, if necessary. While it is possible that the Company’s cash flows and results of operations in a particular quarter or year could be materially affected by the impact of such contingencies, based on current knowledge it is the opinion of management that these matters will not have a material effect on the Company’s financial position, or its ongoing results of operations or cash flows. Refer to Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company’s contingencies.

The Company generates revenue through the sale of well-known consumer products to trade customers under established trading terms. While the recognition of revenue and receivables requires the use of estimates, there is a short time frame (typically less than 60 days) between the shipment of product and cash receipt, thereby reducing the level of uncertainty in these estimates. Refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further description of the Company’s significant accounting policies.

55

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K may contain forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the SEC in its rules, regulations and releases that set forth anticipated results based on management’s current plans and assumptions. Such statements may relate, for example, to sales or volume growth, net selling price increases, organic sales growth, profit or profit margin levels, earnings per share levels, financial goals, the impact of foreign exchange volatility, the impact of COVID-19, cost-reduction plans (including the 2022 Global Productivity Initiative), tax rates, new product introductions, commercial investment levels, acquisitions, divestitures, share repurchases, or legal or tax proceedings, among other matters. These statements are made on the basis of the Company’s views and assumptions as of this time and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the SEC. Moreover, the Company does not, nor does any other person, assume responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of those statements. The Company cautions investors that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual events or results may differ materially from those statements. Actual events or results may differ materially because of factors that affect international businesses and global economic conditions, as well as matters specific to the Company and the markets it serves, including the uncertain economic and political environment in different countries and its effect on consumer spending habits, foreign currency rate fluctuations, exchange controls, sanctions, tariffs, price or profit controls, labor relations, changes in foreign or domestic laws, or regulations or their interpretation, political and fiscal developments, including changes in trade, tax and immigration policies, increased competition and evolving competitive practices (including from the growth of eCommerce and the entry of new competitors and business models), the ability to operate and respond effectively during a pandemic, epidemic or widespread public health concern, including COVID-19, ability to manage disruptions in our global supply chain and/or key office facilities, ability to manage the availability and cost of raw and packaging materials and logistics costs, the ability to maintain or increase selling prices as needed, changes in the policies of retail trade customers, the emergence of alternative retail channels, the growth of eCommerce and the rapidly changing retail landscape (as consumers increasingly shop online and via mobile and social applications), the ability to develop innovative new products, the ability to lower costs, successfully implement the 2022 Global Productivity Initiative and drive growth and instill a growth mindset to drive innovation, the ability to maintain the security of our information technology systems from a cyber-security incident or data breach, the ability to lessen and address the effects of climate change and achieve our sustainability and social impact targets, the ability to complete acquisitions and divestitures as planned, the ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, the ability to attract and retain key employees and integrate DE&I initiatives across our organization, the uncertainty of the outcome of legal proceedings, whether or not the Company believes they have merit, and the ability to address uncertain or unfavorable global economic conditions, disruptions in the credit markets and tax matters. For information about these and other factors that could impact the Company’s business and cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements, refer to Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors.”

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK