Item 7A. Market Risk

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We have market risk exposure related to fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Market risk is the potential negative impact of adverse changes in these prices or rates on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In an effort to manage our exposure to these risks, we may enter into derivative contracts and may adjust our derivative portfolio as market conditions change. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our derivative contracts. We expect adjustments to the fair value of financial instruments to result in ongoing volatility in earnings and stockholders' equity.

The following sensitivity analyses do not consider the effects of a change in demand for air travel, the economy as a whole or actions we may take to seek to mitigate our exposure to a particular risk. For these and other reasons, the actual results of changes in these prices or rates may differ materially from the following hypothetical results.

Fuel Price Risk

Changes in fuel prices materially impact our results of operations. A one cent increase in the cost of jet fuel would result in approximately $40 million of additional annual fuel expense based on annual pre-COVID-19 pandemic consumption of approximately four billion gallons of jet fuel. As a result of the reduced capacity from the COVID-19 pandemic, our jet fuel consumption during 2021 of 2.8 billion gallons was significantly less than our historical and expected future consumption. Our derivative contracts to hedge the financial risk from changing fuel prices are primarily related to Monroe’s inventory. 

Interest Rate Risk

Our exposure to market risk from adverse changes in interest rates is primarily associated with our debt and lease obligations. Market risk associated with our fixed-rate debt relates to the potential reduction in fair value from an increase in interest rates. Market risk associated with our variable-rate debt and variable-rate leases relates to the potential negative impact to future earnings from an increase in interest rates. 

At December 31, 2021, we had $21.4 billion of fixed-rate debt, $3.9 billion of variable-rate debt and $833 million of variable-rate leases. The rates used in our variable-rate debt are based on LIBOR, or another index rate, which in certain cases is subject to a floor. An increase of 100 basis points in average annual interest rates would have decreased the estimated fair value of our fixed-rate debt by $1.1 billion at December 31, 2021 and would have increased the annual interest expense on our variable-rate debt and variable-rate leases by $24 million. 

In March 2021, the administrator of LIBOR announced that the publication of certain LIBOR settings will cease after December 2021 and publication of the remainder of the LIBOR settings will cease after June 2023. At December 31, 2021, we had no exposure to the discontinued LIBOR settings and had approximately $3.9 billion of LIBOR-based debt and finance leases maturing after June 2023, all of which include mechanisms for replacing the applicable reference rate, which we do not expect to be materially different from LIBOR.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk because we have revenue, expense and equity investments denominated in foreign currencies. To manage exchange rate risk, we execute both our international revenue and expense transactions in the same foreign currency to the extent practicable. From time to time, we may also enter into foreign currency option and forward contracts. 

At December 31, 2021, we had a U.S. dollar-South Korean won cross currency swap contract totaling a $1 million asset position. We estimate that a 10% depreciation or appreciation in the price of the South Korean won in relation to the U.S. dollar would have changed the projected cash settlement value of our open hedge contract by $15 million for the year ending December 31, 2021.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. 2021 Form 10-K 61

Financial Statements

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA