Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

The Company is exposed to market risk from financial instruments primarily from changes in interest rates. Such risks derive from the refinancing of debt maturities, from exposure to interest rate fluctuations on floating rate debt and from derivative instruments utilized to swap fixed rate debt to floating or to hedge rates in anticipation of future debt issuances. Our operating results are, therefore, affected by changes in short-term interest rates, primarily LIBOR and Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (“SIFMA”) indices, which directly impact borrowings under our revolving credit facility and interest on secured and unsecured borrowings contractually tied to such rates. Short-term interest rates also indirectly affect the discount on notes issued under our commercial paper program. Additionally, we have exposure to long-term interest rates, particularly U.S. Treasuries as they are utilized to price our long-term borrowings and therefore affect the cost of refinancing existing debt or incurring additional debt. 

In the U.S., the Alternative Rates Reference Committee (the “ARRC”), a group of market participants convened in 2014 to help ensure a successful transition away from USD LIBOR, has identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as its preferred alternative rate. As part of the transition process that is now under way, LIBOR is no longer published for certain tenors and key USD settings are expected to be discontinued by June 2023. LIBOR is the primary basis for determining interest payments on borrowings on the Company’s $2.5 billion revolving credit facility. This facility contains provisions that establish a process for entering into an amendment to replace LIBOR under certain circumstances. We are closely monitoring the evolution of practices in the credit market and we do not expect such transition to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or cash flows. 

The Company monitors and manages interest rates as part of its risk management process, by targeting adequate levels of floating rate exposure and an appropriate debt maturity profile. From time to time, we may utilize derivative instruments to manage interest rate exposure and to comply with the requirements of certain lenders, but not for trading or speculative purposes. 

The Company had total variable rate debt of $0.6 billion, representing 7.3% of total debt, and $0.8 billion, representing 10.0% of total debt, as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher in 2021 and 2020 and average balances coincided with year end balances, our annual interest expense would have been $6.1 million and $8.1 million higher, respectively. Unsecured notes issued under the Company’s commercial paper program are treated as variable rate debt for the purposes of this calculation even though they do not have a stated interest rate, given their short-term nature. The effect of derivatives, if applicable, is also considered when computing the total amount of variable rate debt. 

Changes in interest rates also affect the estimated fair market value of our fixed rate debt, computed using a discounted cash flow model. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had total outstanding fixed rate debt of $7.7 billion, or 92.7% of total debt, with an estimated fair market value of $8.4 billion. If interest rates had been 100 basis points lower as of December 31, 2021, the estimated fair market value would have increased by approximately $637.2 million. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had total outstanding fixed rate debt of $7.2 billion, or 90.0% of total debt, with an estimated fair market value of $8.2 billion. If interest rates had been 100 basis points lower as of December 31, 2020, the estimated fair market value would have increased by approximately $686.6 million. 

These amounts were determined by considering the impact of hypothetical interest rates on the Company’s financial instruments. These analyses do not consider the effects of the changes in overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. Further, in the event of changes of such magnitude, management would likely take actions to further mitigate its exposure to these changes. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, this analysis assumes no changes in the Company’s financial structure or results. 

The Company cannot predict the effect of adverse changes in interest rates on its debt and derivative instruments and, therefore, its exposure to market risk, nor can there be any assurance that long-term debt will be available at advantageous pricing. Consequently, future results may differ materially from the estimated adverse changes discussed above. 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data