ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to market risk, primarily from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and investments. See Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of commodity price risk. The following quantifies the market risk exposure arising from hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.

On December 31, 2021, we had notional forward exchange contracts outstanding of $6.8 billion. On December 31, 2020, we had notional forward exchange and interest rate swap contracts outstanding of $9.4 billion. A 10% unfavorable rate movement in our portfolio of forward exchange and interest rate swap contracts would have resulted in the following hypothetical, incremental pretax (losses) gains:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Foreign Currency Risk. Our exchange-rate sensitivity relates primarily to changes in the Canadian dollar, euro and Swiss franc exchange rates. These losses and gains would be offset by corresponding gains and losses in the remeasurement of the underlying transactions being hedged. We believe these foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the offsetting underlying commitments, when taken together, do not create material market risk.

Interest Rate Risk. On December 31, 2021, we had $11.5 billion principal amount of fixed-rate debt. Our fixed-rate debt obligations are not putable, and we do not trade these securities in the market. A 10% unfavorable interest rate movement would not have a material impact on the fair value of our fixed-rate debt.

Investment Risk. Our investment policy allows for purchases of fixed-income securities with an investment-grade rating and a maximum maturity of up to five years. On December 31, 2021 and 2020, we held $1.6 billion and $2.8 billion in cash and equivalents, respectively, but held no marketable securities other than those held in trust to meet some of our obligations under workers’ compensation and non-qualified pension plans. On December 31, 2021 and 2020, we held marketable securities in trust of $191 and $211, respectively. These marketable securities are reflected at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in other current and noncurrent assets.

51

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA