Item 1. Business.

Overview

Hasbro, Inc. (“Hasbro”) is a global play and entertainment company committed to Creating the World’s Best Play and Entertainment Experiences and its purpose of making the world a better place for all children, fans and families. Hasbro delivers immersive brand experiences for global audiences through consumer products, including toys and games; entertainment through Entertainment One (“eOne,”), our independent studio; and gaming, led by the team at Wizards of the Coast, an award-winning developer of tabletop and digital games. With our eOne studio and Wizards gaming business, we continue to expand our global audiences beyond children, fans and families, through content and gaming.

Our iconic brands include NERF, MAGIC: THE GATHERING, MY LITTLE PONY, TRANSFORMERS, PLAY-DOH, MONOPOLY, BABY ALIVE, DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, POWER RANGERS, PEPPA PIG and PJ MASKS, as well as premier partner brands. For the past decade, we have been consistently recognized for our corporate citizenship, including being named one of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens by 3BL Media and one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere Institute.

Fiscal 2021 Developments

Leadership Matters

On October 12, 2021, we announced the passing of our beloved leader and long-time Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Brian D. Goldner. Mr. Goldner joined Hasbro in 2000 and was quickly recognized as a visionary in the industry. He was appointed CEO in 2008 and became Chairman of the Board in 2015. He was instrumental in transforming the Company into a global play and entertainment leader, architecting a strategic Brand Blueprint to create the world’s best play and storytelling experiences. Through his unwavering focus, he expanded the Company beyond toys and games into television, movies, digital gaming and beyond, to ensure Hasbro’s iconic brands reached every consumer, in every way they engage in entertainment and play.

6
Following Mr. Goldner’s passing, Richard S. Stoddart, an independent member of the Board since 2014, was appointed by the Board to serve as Hasbro’s interim CEO while the Company completed its CEO succession process. In addition to the appointment of Mr. Stoddart, Tracy A. Leinbach, a member of the Board since 2008, was appointed to serve as Chair of the Board, and the Lead Independent Director role was eliminated. 

In January 2022, we announced the appointment of Christian (Chris) Cocks as Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors, both effective February 25, 2022. He will succeed interim CEO, Mr. Stoddart, who will become Chair of the Board, effective February 25, 2022. Since 2021, Mr. Cocks has served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Hasbro’s Wizards of the Coast and Digital Gaming division, a global leader in tabletop and digital gaming, and prior to that he served as President and COO of Wizards of the Coast since 2016, when he joined Hasbro from Microsoft.

In January 2022, we also announced the appointment of Eric Nyman as President and Chief Operating Officer, effective February 25, 2022, where he will oversee global business, operational and foundational platform investments; continue to lead Hasbro’s consumer products business, overall consumer licensing strategy and strategic partnerships; and oversee Hasbro’s global supply chain. Mr. Nyman, who joined Hasbro in 2003, currently serves as Chief Consumer Officer and Chief Operating Officer of Hasbro Consumer Products.

eOne Music Sale

In June 2021, we completed the sale of our Entertainment One Music business (“eOne Music”) as we continue to focus on the core strategic elements of our Brand Blueprint to further strengthen our position as a purpose‐led play and entertainment company.

Segment Realignment

Effective for the first quarter of 2021, we realigned our reportable segment structure to correspond with the evolution of our company. The realigned segments represent changes to our reporting structure and reflect management’s allocation of decision-making responsibilities for evaluating the Company’s performance. Our new reportable segments are: Consumer Products, Wizards of the Coast and Digital Gaming, Entertainment and Corporate and Other. See “Reportable Segments” below and note 21 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements, of this Form 10-K for further discussion on the Company's segment realignment.

Coronavirus Pandemic

During fiscal 2020, the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic had a substantial adverse impact on our business, as well as our employees, consumers, customers, partners, licensees, suppliers and manufacturers, due both to the direct impact of the virus, as well as the preventative measures taken to reduce the spread of the virus worldwide.

In fiscal 2020, and continuing into fiscal 2021, we experienced:

◦difficulties in shipping and distributing products due to ongoing port capacity, shipping container and truck transportation shortages, resulting in higher costs for both ocean and air freight and delays in the availability of products, which can result in delayed sales and in some cases result in lost sales. These and other disruptions are expected to continue in 2022;

◦disruptions in supply of products, due to closures or reductions in operations at third-party manufacturing facilities across several geographies including, but not limited to, China, Vietnam, India, the United States and Ireland;

◦adverse sales impact due to changes in consumer purchasing behavior and availability of products to consumers, resulting from retail store closures, limited reopening of retail stores and limitations on the capacity of ecommerce channels to supply additional products;

◦fluctuations in our performance based on the progress of different countries in controlling the coronavirus and the maturity of e-commerce platforms in those markets;

◦in fiscal 2020, limited production of live-action scripted and unscripted entertainment content due to the hard stop and soft reopening of production studios;

◦delays or postponements of entertainment productions and releases of entertainment content both internally and by our partners;

7
◦increases in entertainment production costs due to measures required to minimize COVID-19 risks; and

◦challenges of working remotely, including in the design and development of both physical and digital product offerings by us and our licensees.

In response to these challenges, we developed and continue to develop and execute plans to mitigate the negative impact of COVID-19 to the business. Our responses included:

◦utilizing our global supply chain and existing inventory to work to meet demand, while managing freight cost increases across all markets, as our manufacturing facilities returned to varying levels of operation;

◦mitigating risk in the global supply chain by expanding shipping capacity, activating alternate ports in China and the U.S. and prioritizing supply based on inventory and customer needs, including utilizing air freight to a greater degree, which has raised our costs;

◦accelerating our business online and expanding omni-channel to get products to customers and consumers;

◦developing innovative ways to enable players to continue to play games remotely;

◦continuing to create new entertainment, including post-production work and the development of animation productions remotely;

◦implementing preventative measures and health and safety protocols; and

◦introduction of a hybrid work model.

We have maintained sufficient liquidity and access to capital resources. We also continue to closely monitor customer health and collectability of receivables. The COVID-19 outbreak continues to be fluid and it is difficult to forecast the impact it could have on our future operations. Please see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors, in this Form 10-K for further information.

8
Brand Blueprint Strategy

Our strategic plan is centered around the Hasbro Brand Blueprint, a framework for bringing compelling and expansive brand experiences to consumers and audiences around the world. Our brands are story-led and play-led consumer franchises brought to life through a wide array of consumer products, digital gaming and compelling content offered across a multitude of platforms and media. Our commitment to disciplined, strategic investments across the Brand Blueprint over the long-term has built a differentiated business with diversified capabilities to drive profitable growth and enhance shareholder value.

Hasbro's purpose of making the world a better place for all children, fans and families sits at the center of the Hasbro Brand Blueprint and is a key driver of our brands and content. The development and execution of our brands and content are informed by our proprietary consumer insights, which help us understand the behavior of our consumers. We have learned that consumers will travel with a brand that they love across multiple forms and formats, including our core historical strength of toys and games and licensed consumer products, as well as digital gaming and story-led entertainment, such as short-form content online and long-form content in television and film.

The value of Hasbro is fully activated when we can take a brand across all elements of the Brand Blueprint – consumer products; Wizards of the Coast and digital gaming; and entertainment. The ability to build a brand in any of our segments and leverage in-house capabilities to create multiple categories of engagement with consumers and fans is unique to Hasbro and optimizes our economics today and in the future.

As the global consumer landscape, shopping behaviors and the retail and entertainment environments continue to evolve, we continue to adapt and refine our business strategy. This process includes reexamining the ways we organize across the Hasbro Brand Blueprint, re-shaping our business into a more adaptive and digitally-driven organization, expanding our ecommerce capabilities, including building direct to consumer expertise, and attracting and developing a high-performing and diverse workforce through human capital investments.

Below is summary of the key areas of focus for activating our brands across the Hasbro Brand Blueprint.

•Toys and Games. We market and sell toys and games based on our owned and controlled brands globally at retail stores, through e-commerce platforms and through our fan-based direct-to-consumer platform, Hasbro PULSE. Additionally, through license agreements with third parties, we develop and sell products based on popular third-party brands through these channels. Our toys and games include action figures, arts and crafts and creative play products, fashion and other dolls, play sets, preschool toys, plush products, sports action blasters and accessories, vehicles and toy-related specialty products, games and many other consumer products which represent an array of internationally recognizable brands that capture the imagination of our consumers worldwide. 

9
Within toys and games, as a leading producer of new and innovative gaming brands and play experiences our gaming business continues to transform game play. To successfully execute our gaming strategy, we consider brands which capitalize on existing trends while evolving our approach to gaming using consumer insights and offering gaming experiences relevant to consumer demand for face-to-face, trading card and digital game experiences played as board, off-the-board, digital, card, electronic, trading card and role-playing games. 

Our subsidiary, Wizards of the Coast (“Wizards”), is a critical part of our gaming business, driving innovation and growth through its popular role-playing and fantasy card-collecting games such as MAGIC: THE GATHERING and DUNGEONS & DRAGONS. Our iconic game brands include long-time favorites such as MONOPOLY, JENGA, CONNECT 4, THE GAME OF LIFE, SCRABBLE, CLUE and TRIVIAL PURSUIT. Our gaming business also includes new social gaming brands as well as many other well-known game brands. 

•Licensed Consumer Products. We promote our brands through the out-licensing of our intellectual properties to third parties for promotional and merchandising uses in a wide range of consumer products. These include apparel, publishing, home goods and electronics, or in certain situations, toy products where we consider the out-licensing of brands to be more effective and profitable than developing and marketing the products ourselves. We also out-license our brands for uses in theme park attractions, other forms of location-based entertainment and within formats such as film and TV programming. In cases where we license our intellectual property to a third party, we enter into contracts with licensees that pay us either a sales-based or usage-based royalty, or a combination of both, for use of the brands, and, in some cases, the license arrangements are subject to minimum guaranteed amounts or fixed fees, over the term of the license.

•Digital Gaming. We are investing to grow our digital gaming business to further unlock the value of our brands through play and storytelling. This includes development of digital games internally and through third parties. For example, we have developed and launched digital versions of the MAGIC: THE GATHERING card game, including Magic: The Gathering Arena, which includes the game's mobile application launch in 2021. Additionally, through Wizards we launched Dungeons & Dragons: Dark Alliance, a team-based action role-playing game, set in the DUNGEONS & DRAGONS world, released in the first half of 2021 for PC and gaming consoles. We also out-license certain of our brands to other third-party digital game developers who transform Hasbro brand-based characters and other intellectual properties, into digital gaming experiences.

•Entertainment. A key driver of the Hasbro Brand Blueprint is to reinforce storylines associated with our brands through several entertainment mediums, including television, film, digital content and other programming. Our entertainment business, through eOne, is a global independent studio, that specializes in the development, acquisition, production, distribution and sales of entertainment content. With our cross-platform capabilities our entertainment business leverages film and television production and sales, digital content and children's programming to create compelling entertainment and drive creativity across brands with merchandising and licensing tie-ins.

◦Television. In television, we are a major independent producer of television content with a focus on the development, production and acquisition of high-quality television programming for sale to broadcasters and digital platforms globally. Through our television studios, we develop and produce original programming for broadcast in our core television production territories of Canada and the U.S., which is then distributed into global markets to various broadcasters and cable networks by our international sales network. We also distribute programming globally on various digital platforms, including Netflix and Apple TV. Our television programming is typically financed on a production‑by‑production basis by way of production financing facilities. Our original television programming is sold to broadcasters on a series‑by‑series or individual show basis for broadcast on free television, pay television, Subscription Video‑On‑Demand ("SVOD") and other digital platforms. Our programming spans a variety of genres, including scripted drama, non‑scripted reality and documentaries, and in multiple formats, including series, television films, mini‑series and specials.

10
◦Film. In film, our focus is on the development, production and co-production of films, an increasing number of which are based on Hasbro brands, as well as the acquisition and development of film production rights and the exploitation of these rights on a multi‑territory basis across all media channels, including cinema, physical home entertainment and broadcast and digital. 

In October 2017, we entered into an agreement with Paramount Pictures (“Paramount”) to produce and distribute live action and animated films, as well as television programming based on Hasbro brands over a five-year period. Hasbro’s global eOne studio plays an active role alongside Paramount in content development and production under this relationship. Hasbro also plays a significant role in financing films created through this cooperative agreement. Under this relationship we plan to release TRANSFORMERS: RISE OF THE BEASTS, a feature length film expected in summer of 2023. In addition, under a separate agreement entered with Paramount, where Hasbro’s eOne studio will serve as the production entity, we plan to release a DUNGEONS & DRAGONS feature length film, expected in early 2023.

◦Family Brands Animation. Our family brands team develops, produces and distributes animation content for children’s properties on a worldwide basis. The principal brands include MY LITTLE PONY, PEPPA PIG and PJ MASKS, whose content entertains children worldwide and generates revenues around the Hasbro Brand Blueprint through licensing and merchandising programs across multiple retail categories. These brands generate revenues from Advertising Video-On-Demand (“AVOD”) through platforms such as YouTube and SVOD revenues from the sale of content to video streaming platforms. Our portfolio of preschool brand driven content also includes PJ MASKS, CUPCAKE & DINO: GENERAL SERVICES, and RICKY ZOOM, as well as BABY ALIVE and PLAY-DOH.

•Other Brand Blueprint Areas. Other aspects of the Hasbro Brand Blueprint that help drive our storytelling experiences include, digital content, e-sports, location-based entertainment, and publishing.

◦Digital Content. We understand the importance of digital content to drive fan engagement, including in gaming and across other media, and of integrating such content with our products. Digital media encompasses digital gaming applications and the creation of digital environments for analog products through the use of complementary digital applications, social media and websites which extend storylines and enhance play.

◦e-sports. We continue to seek innovative ways to bring our traditional games to the digital world, where consumers can experience our brands and compete with each other in a multiplayer online adventure experience. A prime example of this is Magic: The Gathering Arena, our digital gaming version of the MAGIC:THE GATHERING trading card game.

◦Location-Based Entertainment. Location-based entertainment (“LBE”) allows consumers to experience and share our brands. LBE includes licensing our brands to theme parks, water parks, hotels and resorts, family entertainment centers, retail, dining and entertainment, shows, exhibits and exhibitions. These experiences bring our brands to life and further immerse our consumers in our storytelling. 

◦Publishing. Licensing our brands to global publishers is another way to bring our brands to consumers in a meaningful way through various publishing formats, from puzzle and trivia books to novels and comics.

◦Music. Music remains a key medium to increase brand affinity and awareness. We create branded music, working with distributors to exploit that music in physical, digital and streaming formats. We partner our brands with music artists to increase exposure for our products and we work closely with music publishers to collect music publishing income from all manner of exploitation.

11
•Brand Blueprint in Action. A few examples of our Brand Blueprint in action during 2021 and beyond are described below.

◦In 2021, our gaming portfolio grew 19% to $2.1 billion. Our gaming portfolio is one of the biggest, most profitable and fastest growing combinations of gaming brands across face to face, tabletop and digital platforms in the world. Led by MAGIC: THE GATHERING, which had its best year ever, we continue to invest in this growing business. Tabletop to digital, MAGIC: THE GATHERING and DUNGEONS & DRAGONS have generated significant growth with high engagement. We have plans to leverage the power of Wizards’ brands across the Brand Blueprint for both current fans and potential new fans as we have a new MAGIC: THE GATHERING Netflix series coming later in 2022, and, in early 2023, the planned theatrical release of the DUNGEONS & DRAGONS feature film as described above. We believe these efforts will harness the full potential of the Brand Blueprint with new products introduced in toy & game and licensed consumer products.

◦We experienced a successful relaunch of one of our iconic brands, MY LITTLE PONY. Led by the expertise of our eOne entertainment team, we released My Little Pony: A New Generation, an animated feature film that was #1 in the Netflix Kids Top 10 in more than 80 countries on opening weekend. This relaunch fueled greater than 100% growth in toy and game point of sale in the fourth quarter 2021. We have a significant multi-year content roadmap led by eOne and a deep and innovative merchandise program, which we believe will position this brand to reclaim its place as a leading global lifestyle brand.

◦Two other valuable brands that benefited from the Brand Blueprint were PEPPA PIG and PJ MASKS. In August 2021, we launched the first Hasbro toys and games for these leading preschool brands. PEPPA PIG was one of our top brand growers for 2021, and as we shifted licensed revenue to in-sourced revenue in toys and games, we were still able to grow licensed consumer products revenue, highlighting the powerful reach of PEPPA PIG across categories.

12
Brand Portfolios

We organize and market owned, controlled and licensed intellectual properties within our brand architecture under the following five brand portfolios: 

•Franchise Brands 

•Partner Brands 

•Hasbro Gaming 

•Emerging Brands 

•TV/Film/Entertainment

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

13
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Reportable Segments

Segment Realignment

Effective for the first quarter 2021, we realigned our reportable segment structure to correspond with the evolution of our company, which includes the integration of our global independent studio, eOne. The realigned segments represent changes to our reporting structure and reflect management’s allocation of decision-making responsibilities for evaluating the Company’s performance.

Our new reportable segments are: 

◦Consumer Products

◦Wizards of the Coast and Digital Gaming

◦Entertainment

◦Corporate and Other

14
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

15
Corporate and Other

•Provides management and administrative services to the Company's principal reporting segments described above. The segment consists of unallocated corporate expenses and administrative costs and activities not considered when evaluating segment performance as well as certain assets benefiting more than one segment. In addition, intersegment transactions are eliminated within the Corporate and Other segment.

•Additional Segment Information.

◦To further extend our range of products in the various segments of our business, we sell a portion of our toy and game products to retailers on a direct import basis from the Far East. These sales are reflected in the revenue of the related segment, to which the sale relates.

◦Certain of our products are licensed to other companies for sale in selected countries where we do not otherwise have a direct business presence.

◦For more financial and geographic information regarding our segments, please see note 21 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements, of this Form 10-K.

Working Capital Requirements; Seasonality

Our working capital needs are financed through available cash and cash generated from operations, primarily through the sale of toys and games and secondarily through our consumer products licensing and entertainment operations, and, when necessary, by issuing commercial paper or borrowing under our revolving credit agreement. In the event the Company is not able to issue commercial paper, we intend to utilize our available lines of credit. 

In addition, the Company’s Entertainment operating segment uses production financing to fund certain of its television and film productions which are typically arranged on an individual production basis by special purpose production subsidiaries.

Our customer order patterns may vary from year to year largely due to fluctuations in the degree of consumer acceptance of product lines, supply and product availability, marketing strategies and inventory policies of retailers, TV and film content releases, including the dates of theatrical releases of major motion pictures for which we offer products, and changes in overall economic conditions. As a result, a disproportionate volume of our net revenues from our consumer products business has historically been earned during the third and fourth quarters leading up to the retail industry’s holiday selling season, including Christmas. Moreover, quick response, or just-in-time, inventory management practices result in a significant proportion of orders being placed for immediate delivery. We expect retailers will continue to follow this strategy. In 2021 and 2020, the second half of the year accounted for approximately 62% and 65% of full year revenues, respectively, with the third and fourth quarters each accounting for approximately 31% of full year net revenues in 2021 and 33% and 32% of full year revenues in 2020.

Historically, we commit to the majority of our inventory production and advertising and marketing expenditures for a given year, prior to the peak fourth quarter retail selling season. Our accounts receivable balances increase during the third and fourth quarters as customers increase their purchases to meet expected consumer demand in the holiday season. Due to the concentrated timeframe of this selling period, payments for these accounts receivable are generally not due until later in the fourth quarter or early in the first quarter of the subsequent year. The timing difference between expenses paid and revenues collected sometimes makes it necessary for us to borrow varying amounts during the year, however, we have had sufficient liquidity and capital resources throughout 2021 and 2020 and have not had to borrow under our revolving credit facility.

Our entertainment business is also subject to seasonal variations based on the timing of film, television, streaming and digital content releases, which are often determined based on the timing of prime television seasons, certain geographic release dates and competition in the market. 

16
Product Development and Royalties

Development

Our success is dependent on continuous innovation in our play and entertainment offerings and requires ongoing development of new brands and products alongside the redesign of existing products to drive consumer interest and market acceptance. Our toy and game products are developed by a global development function, the costs of which are allocated to the selling entities which comprise our principal operating segments. These costs include activities related to the development, design and engineering of new products and their packaging and on the improvement or modification of ongoing products. Much of this work is performed by our internal staff of designers, artists, model makers and engineers. 

Development and related costs associated with Wizards of the Coast products are specifically allocated to that line of business, including significant investments in tabletop gaming as well as digital gaming, most notably, for the development of Magic: The Gathering Arena, the free-to-play adaptation of the MAGIC: THE GATHERING card game available online and for Dungeons & Dragons: Dark Alliance, launched for console play during the first half of 2021. We also continue to invest in Wizards of the Coast tabletop and digital gaming initiatives planned for release in the coming years.

In addition to the design and development work performed by our own staff, we work with a number of independent toy and game designers, and compete for their designs and ideas with other toy and game manufacturers. Rights to such designs and ideas, when acquired or licensed by us, are usually exclusive and the agreements require us to pay the designer a royalty on our net sales of the item. These designer royalty agreements may also provide for advance royalties and minimum guarantees.

Royalties and Participations

We also produce an array of products under licenses based on our partners’ trademarks and copyrights for the names or likenesses of characters from movies, television shows and other entertainment media. We compete with other toy and game manufacturers for these licensed rights and we refer to our products produced under these arrangements as Partner Brands. Licensing fees for these rights are generally paid as a royalty on our net sales of the item. Licenses for the use of characters may be exclusive for specific products or product lines in specified territories, or may be non-exclusive, in which case our product offerings may be competing with the product offerings of other licensees. In many instances, advance royalties and minimum guarantees are required by these license agreements. Our royalty expense in any given year may vary depending upon product mix and the timing of movie releases and other entertainment media.

Our entertainment offerings also require us to pay royalties and participations to those involved in the creation of the content, such as producers, writers, directors and actors.

Marketing and Sales, Customer Concentration and Advertising

Marketing and Sales 

While our global development function focuses on brand and product innovation and re-invention, our global marketing function establishes brand direction and messaging and assists the selling entities in establishing local marketing programs. The global marketing group works cross-functionally with the global development function to deliver unified, brand-specific consumer experiences. The costs of this group are allocated to the selling entities which comprise our principal operating segments. In addition to the global marketing function, our local selling entities employ sales and marketing functions responsible for local market activities and execution.

Our products are sold globally to a broad spectrum of customers, including mass-market retailers, distributors, wholesalers, discount stores, drug stores, mail order houses, catalog stores, department stores and other traditional retailers, large and small, as well as ecommerce retailers and direct-to-customer through Hasbro PULSE, our fan-based ecommerce website. Our own sales forces account for the majority of sales of our products with remaining sales generated by independent distributors who, for the most part, sell our products in areas of the world where we do not otherwise maintain a direct presence. The majority of our product sales are to large chain stores, distributors, e-retailers and wholesalers.

17
Customer Concentration

During 2021, net revenues from our top five retail customers accounted for approximately 36% of our consolidated global net revenues, including our largest customers, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Amazon.com and Target Corporation, who represented 13%, 11% and 8%, respectively, of consolidated global net revenues. Net revenues from the Company’s major customers are reported within the Consumer Products segment, Wizards of the Coast & Digital Gaming segment and the Entertainment segment. In 2020, ecommerce sales represented a significant portion of overall sales to these customers as consumers increasingly purchased our products online as compared to in-store shopping due to the shutdown and limited access to retail stores during the COVID-19 pandemic and we saw this trend continue throughout 2021 as compared to pre-pandemic levels. Please see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K for a further discussion of risks relating to customer concentration.

Advertising

We advertise many of our products extensively and brands through digital marketing and on television. Products are strategically cross-promoted by spotlighting specific products alongside related offerings in a manner that promotes the sale of not only the selected item, but also those complementary products. 

As described earlier, the Hasbro Brand Blueprint strategy includes focusing on reinforcing storylines associated with our brands through several mediums, including television, film, digital gaming and live action experiences. Our brands obtain marketing and advertising support through entertainment appearing on major networks globally, theatrical releases as well as on various other digital platforms, such as Netflix and Apple TV. Through our independent studio we are able to cultivate branded-content and activate and re-ignite our brands, including brands from our vault. The most recent example of this was the September 2021 release of the MY LITTLE PONY: A NEW GENERATION animated film produced by eOne, and launched on Netflix globally.

Many of our new toy and game products are introduced to major customers within one to two years leading up to their year of retail introduction. We have historically showcased certain new products through international toy shows, including New York City, Hong Kong and Nuremburg, Germany, though with the pandemic our participation in these shows in 2021 was mostly virtual, which is planned to continue in 2022. Our advertising expenditures are impacted by our product mix in any given year. For example, brands based on major motion picture releases generally require less advertising as a result of the promotional activities around the motion picture release, whereas leading into a major digital gaming launch, our Wizards of the Coast business will have substantial increases to advertising, marketing and promotional expenses to acquire players and promote gaming releases.

Producing, marketing and distributing films and television programming can involve significant costs and the timing of a film’s release can cause our financial results to vary. For instance, marketing costs are generally incurred before and throughout the theatrical release of a film and, to a lesser extent, other distribution windows, and are expensed as incurred. Therefore, we typically incur losses with respect to a particular film prior to and during the film’s theatrical release and profitability for the film may not be realized until after its theatrical release window.

Manufacturing and Supply Chain

During 2021, the majority of our products were manufactured in third-party facilities in the Far East, primarily China, Vietnam and India, using a Hong Kong based wholly-owned subsidiary operation for quality control and order coordination purposes. Within the U.S. and Ireland, we utilize two previously owned facilities now operated by Cartamundi, which are located in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and Waterford, Ireland, to manufacture significant quantities of Hasbro game products under a multi-year manufacturing agreement. We have diversified our global sourcing mix and decreased our dependence on Chinese manufacturing by increasing production of our products in other countries, including Vietnam and India. As of December 26, 2021, 48% of third-party product manufacturing was sourced outside of China.

Beginning in early 2020 with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, and continuing throughout 2021, we experienced disruptions to supply of our products due to closures of third-party manufacturing facilities across several geographies, primarily in early 2020, or reductions in manufacturing facility operations across multiple geographies throughout 2020 and 2021. Additionally, we have experienced difficulties in shipping and distributing certain products due to the ongoing global port capacity, shipping container and truck transportation shortages. These challenges have at times caused delays in the availability of products, which in some instances have led to delayed sales and in certain isolated cases, lost sales. These and other disruptions are expected to continue into 2022. However, despite these adverse manufacturing and supply chain conditions, at this time, we believe the manufacturing capacity of our third-party manufacturers, as well as the supply of components, accessories and 

18
completed products which we purchase from unaffiliated manufacturers, are adequate to meet the anticipated demand in 2022 for our products. Additionally, during 2021 in response to global supply chain disruptions, we have expanded shipping capacity, activated alternate ports in China and the U.S. and we have prioritized supply based on inventory and customer needs, including the utilization of air freight when needed. However, if global supply chain challenges do not improve or worsen, or we or our suppliers suffer prolonged manufacturing disruptions due to public health conditions, such as the coronavirus, manufacturing capacity of our third-party manufacturers as well as supply of components, accessories and our products may be adversely impacted. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K for further information. 

Most of our toys and games are manufactured from basic raw materials such as plastic, paper and cardboard, although certain products also use electronic components. All of these materials are readily available but may be subject to significant fluctuations in price. There are certain chemicals (including phthalates and BPA) that national, state and local governments have restricted or are seeking to restrict or limit the use of; however, we do not believe these restrictions have or will materially impact our business. We generally enter into agreements with suppliers at the beginning of a fiscal year that establish prices for that year. However, significant volatility in the prices of any of these materials may require renegotiation with our suppliers during the year.

Competition

We are a worldwide leader in the development, design, sale and marketing of toys and games and entertainment offerings, operating in a highly competitive business environment. We compete with several large toy and game companies in our product categories, as well as with many smaller United States and international toy and game designers, manufacturers and marketers. In certain instances, we also compete with large retailers, who offer such products under their own private labels, often at lower prices. In addition, we compete with digital gaming developers, who focus primarily on digital gaming products. We also compete with other companies that offer TV and film content and branded entertainment specific to children and their families. Given the ease of entry into our business we view our primary competition as coming from content providers, digital gaming providers and toy and game companies who are creating entertainment experiences that compete with our brand-driven storytelling and product experiences for consumer attention and spending. Businesses that create compelling content can readily translate that content into a full range of product offerings. Competition is based primarily on meeting consumer preferences and on the quality and play value of our products and experiences. To a lesser extent, competition is also based on product pricing.

Our entertainment business competes with other companies that produce and distribute films, television programs and other entertainment content. For example, eOne, as an independent distributor and content producer, competes with other major U.S. and international studios that historically have released a large number of films annually and command a significant share of box office and streaming revenues and television airtime, as well as other independent film and television production or distribution companies. Many of the major U.S. studios are part of large, diversified corporate groups with a variety of other operations, including television networks and cable channels that can provide both in-house distribution capability and varied sources of earnings that may allow them to better offset fluctuations in the financial performance of their film and television operations. Some of these competitors have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we do and may be able to compete aggressively on pricing in order to increase box office revenues and television airtime or streaming placement. In addition, the resources of the major studios may give them an advantage in acquiring other businesses or assets, including content libraries, that we might also be interested in acquiring. The competition we face may cause us to lose market share, achieve lower prices for our productions or pay more for third party content, any of which could harm our business. Additionally, the Discovery Family Channel, our cable television joint venture with Discovery Communications, Inc. in the U.S., competes with a number of other children’s television networks for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution fees. 

In addition to contending with competition from other toy and game and entertainment and storytelling companies, we contend with the phenomenon that children are increasingly sophisticated and have been moving away from traditional toys and games. The variety of digital gaming and digital entertainment offerings available for children has expanded while product life cycles of traditional toys and games have shortened as children move on to more sophisticated offerings at earlier ages. As a result, our products not only compete with those offerings produced by other toy and game manufacturers and companies offering branded family play and entertainment, we also compete, particularly in meeting the demands of older children, with entertainment offerings of many technology companies, such as makers of tablets, mobile devices, video games and other digital gaming products and screens, and social media companies.

19
The changing trends in consumer preferences with respect to entertainment and low barriers to entry as well as the emergence of new technologies and different mediums for viewing content, such as the growing number of streaming platform options, continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups to develop products and offerings that compete with our entertainment and toy and game offerings.

Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) Performance 

Overview

At Hasbro, we believe strong Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) performance drives long-term value creation for all our stakeholders. Our ESG priorities include climate and sustainability, ethical sourcing and human rights, culture, and human capital management, including Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI), and product and content safety. 

Governance

The governance of ESG starts with our Board of Directors (Board), with specific oversight by our Nominating, Governance, and Social Responsibility Committee of the Board (Governance Committee). ESG topics, including DEI, climate, and human rights, are regular agenda items at the Governance Committee. Additionally, the Audit Committee of our Board oversees SEC and public disclosures in specific areas like conflict minerals, climate risk, and enterprise risk. The full Board receives regular updates regarding our ESG progress.

In addition to Board-level governance, our CEO and the senior management team regularly review our ESG performance, progress and opportunities. The Chief Purpose Officer, who reports to the CEO and is a member of senior management, is responsible for setting the strategic direction for our global ESG strategy and performance, and ensures the integration of ESG throughout the global organization and supply chain.  

Building on Our Success and Reaching New Heights

ESG and Purpose are at the center of our Brand Blueprint and drive how we operate the business. We continue to integrate ESG across the business and are proud of our innovative, best-in-class strategic initiatives that uphold our purpose and make a positive impact for our stakeholders.

Below are some of the highlights from 2021:

20
Some of our accolades in the ESG area include:

Key Areas of Focus

•Climate and Sustainability: We recognize the impact our business can have on the environment and are working to reduce our footprint. We view sustainability challenges as opportunities to innovate and to continuously improve our product design and operational efficiencies. We believe the long-term viability and health of our own operations and our supply chain, and the significant potential for environmental improvements, are key components to our business success.

Reducing our Carbon Footprint and Setting Science-Based Targets: We are proud to be taking action on climate. In 2019, we began a comprehensive measurement of our supply chain footprint, with 100% of our suppliers participating. We are now in the process of setting science-based targets for our greenhouse gas emission reductions with a near-term 2030 goal, based on limiting emissions to keep warming below 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels, and a long-term 2050 goal, based on net-zero emissions across our value chain. 

In addition to taking action to reduce our energy consumption and improve energy efficiency, we support initiatives to increase the generation of renewable energy in the marketplace. We continue to meet our renewable energy goal, matching virtually 100 percent (99.6%) of the energy used in our owned and operated facilities with investments in renewable energy. To address the greenhouse gases generated by electricity consumption, we purchase Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) which support the production of renewable energy such as wind, solar, thermal, and similar renewable sources, at levels equal to what we use from the public grid. These RECs are bought in and applied to the markets where the energy is used by our facilities across the globe. 

21
We purchase carbon offsets to address the remaining GHG emissions generated by the use of gas and liquid fuel at our leased and owned facilities, company vehicles, all employee business air travel and the remaining small amount (0.4%) of emissions generated by electricity consumption at our facilities in markets where RECs are not available. 

Other key goals and objectives in this area include:

•Eliminating virtually all plastic in packaging for new products by the end of 2022.

•Expanding our industry-first toy recycling program (currently in 12 countries) in partnership with TerraCycle, a leader in product recycling outside of municipal recycling.

•Reducing energy consumption by 25%, greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, waste to landfill by 50%, and water consumption by 15%, by the end of 2025 for our owned/operated facilities. 

•Climate Risk and Resilience; TCFD: Managing the resilience of our business to the risks of climate change, including severe weather events, is also a priority. We are working to further integrate climate risk and resilience into our overall enterprise risk management process, including our plans to use the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework.

•Human Rights and Ethical Sourcing: Our Human Rights and Ethical Sourcing program, first launched in 1993, is dedicated to ensuring that facilities involved in the production of our toys and games, or licensed consumer products, comply with Hasbro’s Global Business Ethics Principles. The program is designed to ensure fair and safe working conditions; fairness, dignity, and respect for workers; and robust supplier engagement to ensure strong safety, health and environmental performance. While working on these issues with partners, suppliers, third-party factories, and licensees is complex, we remain vigilant in our commitment to ensure workers in our supply chain are treated in accordance with our high ethical standards and applicable laws.

Key goals and objectives in this area include:

•On an annual basis, achieve 100% social compliance audit rate for all third-party vendor and major sub-contractor facilities (Facilities), as well as 100% follow-up audit rate for all Facilities with pending remediation issues.

•Requiring 100% of Facilities to participate and complete the Hasbro Ethical Sourcing Academy, a 30-hour, e-learning social compliance course, which trains and reinforces Hasbro’s rigorous ethical sourcing requirements. This mandatory online training is in addition to monthly in-person vendor workshops that the Hasbro Ethical Sourcing team hosts in our sourcing office locations around the world. 

•Empowering female factory workers through our Worker Well-Being program, which provides life-enhancing skills training and knowledge on topics from nutrition and reproductive health to problem solving and financial literacy.

Human Capital Management

Overview

Our key human capital management objectives for our direct workforce are to attract, develop and retain diverse talent. The experience, dedication and diverse backgrounds of our employees are at the heart of our success, energizing everything we do, from developing innovative products to creating immersive gaming and entertainment experiences. Working together, we seek to create a culture that embraces our values of Community, Creativity, Inclusion, Integrity and Passion. We also believe that when everyone feels valued, they feel empowered to deliver their best every day. As our organization continues to grow and evolve, we remain steadfast in our ambition to provide a supportive and inclusive community that is the best place our employees have ever worked.

Governance

Our governance of human capital falls within the governance structure for ESG overall. The Governance Committee of the Board oversees the company’s human capital policies and practices, including the company’s approach to promoting diversity, equity and inclusion in the workplace. The Compensation Committee of the Board oversees our compensation programs. 

22
Our Chief Human Resources Officer ("CHRO") is responsible for developing and executing key aspects of our human capital strategy, including the attraction, acquisition, development, and engagement of talent to deliver on the Company’s strategy and the design of competitive compensation and employee benefit programs. Our Chief Purpose Officer (CPO) is responsible for developing and executing our strategy for human rights and ethical sourcing programs for the workers across our supply and value chain. Our CPO and CHRO sit on our internal DEI Steering Committee, a committee comprised of global management leaders from various parts of the business. The DEI Steering Committee is responsible for setting the DEI strategy, and our Senior Vice President of DEI is responsible for executing the strategy.

Employees

As of December 26, 2021, we employed 6,640 people worldwide, with approximately 51% of our employees in North America (42% in the United States; 9% in Canada), 24% in Europe, 18% in Asia Pacific, and 7% in Latin America (includes Mexico). As of fiscal year end, approximately 55% of our global workforce was female, 46% of our employees in managerial roles (director level and above) were female, and minorities represented approximately 22% of the Company's U.S. workforce, of which 14% were in managerial roles. For our U.S. workforce, we also disclose our diversity by job type (based on the EEO-1 filing), which is available on our CSR website. The contents of our CSR website are not incorporated herein.

Approximately 6% of our employees globally are covered by unions or collective bargaining agreements.

Key Areas of Focus:

•Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. We believe that the more inclusive we are as a company, the more effective our employees will be and the stronger our business will perform. Hasbro views DEI as a strategic ESG priority that is linked to the future success of our business and the growth of our brands. In 2018, our former Chairman and CEO, Brian Goldner, along with 800 other CEOs, signed on to the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion pledge, developed by the accounting firm PwC, to publicly affirm Hasbro’s commitment to DEI as a fundamental value and corporate priority. A summary of some of the significant steps we have taken to further build a culture of DEI within our organization include:

◦Establishing a DEI function responsible for DEI programs and initiatives, talent acquisition and employee engagement.

◦Holding numerous meetings with employees across the U.S., outlining the business case for DEI.

◦Launching a Global Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging program to discuss employee experiences and concerns in the aftermath of social unrest.

◦Implementing unconscious bias training to help acknowledge subtle biases, which impact employee and management behavior, from hiring to project team selections and people management.

◦Setting ambitious DEI goals for the organization:

▪Increasing female representation in management (Director +) roles globally to 50% by 2025;

▪Expanding ethnically and racially diverse employee representation in the U.S. to 25% by 2025; and 

▪Targeting a 50% diverse slate of candidates when recruiting for open U.S. positions where there is ethnic and minority underrepresentation.

•Employee Engagement. At Hasbro, we support 12 Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), with nearly 1,000 members, reflecting our diverse employee population and the dynamic opportunities for employee engagement. These groups give voice to member concerns, create opportunities for networking and leadership skills development, aid in employee recruitment and retention efforts, and celebrate ethnic and cultural themes important to our workforce. In addition to our ERGs, we established a Business Resource Group (BRG), which provides a channel for the ERGs to consult on business decisions and programs, many related to diversity, as well as on the marketing, design, and content of products. 

23
•Compensation, Health, Safety & Well-being of Employees. Employee attraction, development and retention has long been a key Hasbro priority. We recognize and reward our employees with a total rewards package that includes competitive base pay, equity compensation (for certain levels), annual incentives, product discounts and other comprehensive benefits, including wellness programs that help people integrate work and life commitments. We regularly review salary ratios for men and women in similar roles to help maintain internal equity and market competitiveness across the globe, including among managers. We review both industry and local market data at least annually to identify trends and market gaps to maintain the competitiveness of our compensation and employee benefit programs. When designing our compensation and employee benefit programs, we also look beyond the fundamentals of these important components and consider the bigger picture of how these programs contribute to the overall employee experience.

Employee health, safety and wellness are top priorities at Hasbro. We support our colleagues’ well-being, which includes mental, physical, and financial wellness, through a number of programs, including: 

◦Employee Wellness & Happiness Teams organized in our major offices that offer wellness programs.

◦Robust employee assistance programs, including virtual therapy sessions, that help employees experiencing stress or other mental health needs.

◦Childcare solutions, including in-home and back-up care, as well as back-up adult and elder care for employees balancing work with childcare or elder care needs.

◦Webinars for managers to help identify risk factors and types of mental health issues.

◦A commitment to flexible work arrangements to help employees with work-life balance and to take care of health needs.

◦Financial wellness resources offered by third-party vendors with whom we work that can assist our employees with retirement and other financial planning services.

In 2021, our organization continued to showcase great resilience, with most of our workforce continuing to work remotely due to the COVID-19 pandemic. As part of our ongoing commitment to supporting our diverse and geographically dispersed employee population, we issued regular and frequent communications to ensure the health, safety and, welfare of our employees. We encourage a continuous dialogue with our employees by inviting their feedback and, as a result, we continue to learn about and respond to their concerns. We provided technological tools, ergonomic support, internet capacity, mental health support and many other tools designed to support our workforce in working effectively in their homes or safely on site, if their jobs so required it. We developed engaging COVID-19 handbooks for employees returning to work in our offices around the world and implemented robust employee health and safety protocols and sanitization in our owned and operated offices and facilities globally. We provided employees with a stipend to help them with expenses relating to remote work. In the U.S., we adopted changes to certain employee benefit plans that were authorized by legislation enacted as a result of COVID-19 to allow greater flexibility and broader coverage to our employees in the event they were negatively impacted by COVID-19. Our employees’ health, safety and well-being during the pandemic has been a top priority.

•Training and Talent Development. We are committed to the continued development of our people. Strategic talent reviews and succession planning occur on a planned cadence annually – globally and across all business areas. The CEO and CHRO convene meetings with senior company leadership and the Board to review top company talent. We provide opportunities for our employees to grow their careers. We have programs and training to help develop our employees, such as the Hasbro Management Academy, a global program for managers that identifies and describes what it takes to be an effective leader at Hasbro. We invest in the development of our employees by providing in-house training and opportunities to participate in third-party programs, including specialized training as well as broader academic pursuits.

24
•Community Service. The power of service is core to our culture. We cultivate this culture of community and volunteerism by offering our employees four hours of paid time off every month to volunteer with programs and organizations benefiting children, DEI, environmental stewardship, and other important causes. In addition, team-building company-sponsored volunteer projects are organized throughout the year providing large groups of employees the opportunity to make a meaningful difference in their communities. Our Global Day of Joy is Hasbro’s annual, company-wide day of service and has become a cherished company tradition. The annual tradition takes place every December, and employees from each Hasbro office around the world participate in service projects to benefit child-focused organizations. Finally, in 2021, we also began offering skills-based volunteer opportunities to encourage our employees with specific skills, talents, and professions to donate their time to organizations and communities in need, pro bono. Overall, in 2021, 92% of eligible employees around the world completed more than 250 service projects to positively impact the lives of more than 100,000 children.

Trademarks, Copyrights and Patents

We seek to protect our products, for the most part, and in as many countries as practical, through registered trademarks, copyrights and patents to the extent that such protection is available, cost effective, and meaningful. The loss of such rights concerning any particular product is unlikely to result in significant harm to our business, although the loss of such protection for a number of significant items might have such an effect.

Government Regulation

Our toy and game products sold in the United States are subject to the provisions of The Consumer Product Safety Act, as amended by the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, (as amended, the “CPSIA”), The Federal Hazardous Substances Act (the “FHSA”), The Flammable Fabrics Act (the “FFA”), and the regulations promulgated thereunder. In addition, a few of our products, such as the food mixes for our EASY-BAKE ovens, are also subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration.

The CPSIA empowers the Consumer Product Safety Commission (the “CPSC”) to take action against hazards presented by consumer products, including the formulation and implementation of regulations and uniform safety standards. The CPSC has the authority to seek to declare a product “a banned hazardous substance” under the CPSIA and to ban it from commerce. The CPSC can file an action to seize and condemn an “imminently hazardous consumer product” under the CPSIA and may also order equitable remedies such as recall, replacement, repair or refund for the product. The FHSA provides for the repurchase by the manufacturer of articles that are banned.

Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in many international markets including Canada, Australia and Europe. We utilize independent third party laboratories that employ testing and other procedures intended to maintain compliance with the CPSIA, the FHSA, the FFA, other applicable domestic and international product standards, and our own standards. Any material product recall or other safety issue impacting our products could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, depending on the product and scope of the recall, could damage our reputation and could negatively affect sales of our other products as well.

The Children’s Television Act of 1990 and the rules and regulations of the United States Federal Communications Commission, the rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission, as well as the laws of certain other countries, also place limitations on television commercials during children’s programming and on advertising in other forms to children, and on the collection of information from children, such as restrictions on collecting information from children under the age of thirteen subject to the provisions of the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act.

In addition to laws restricting the collection of information from children, our business is subject to other regulations, such as the General Data Protection Regulation which became effective in the European Union in May 2018, which restricts the collection, use, and retention of personal information, as well as data protection laws in the United States and other countries. Failure to comply with any of those restrictions can subject us to severe liabilities.

Further we maintain programs to comply with various United States federal, state, local and international requirements relating to the environment, health, safety and other matters.

25
Our Canadian television and film operations benefit from certain funding and tax credits for certain productions in Canada. To continue to avail ourselves of these benefits, we plan to comply with applicable regulations and directives of the Investment Canada Act and the Minister of Canadian Heritage.

Our Executive Officers

The following persons are our executive officers. Such executive officers are elected annually. The position(s) and office(s) listed below are the principal position(s) and office(s) held by such persons with the Company. The persons listed below generally also serve as officers and directors of certain of our various subsidiaries at our request.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Effective Feb 25, 2022, Christian Cocks has been appointed as CEO and a Director, Eric Nyman has been appointed as President and Chief Operating Officer, and Rich Stoddart will no longer serve as interim CEO and will become Chair of the Board.

(1) Mr. Stoddart was appointed to serve as interim CEO in October 2021; Mr. Stoddart, most recently the Lead Independent Director of the Board, was appointed to the Company's Board in 2014. Mr. Stoddart was President and Chief Executive Officer of InnerWorkings, Inc., from 2018 to 2020; prior thereto, Chief Executive Officer of Leo Burnett Worldwide from February 2017 to 2018, the Chief Executive Officer of Leo Burnett North America from 2013 to 2017 and the President of Leo Burnett North America from 2005 to 2013.

(2) Prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2009 to 2013.

(3) Effective February 25, 2022, Mr. Cocks will become Chief Executive Officer of Hasbro.

(4) Effective February 25, 2022, Mr. Nyman will become President and Chief Operating Officer of Hasbro. Prior thereto, he served as Chief Consumer Officer and Chief Operating Officer of Hasbro Consumer Products from 2021-2022, Chief Consumer Officer from 2020-2021, President, North America Sales and Marketing from 2018-2020, President US Sales Marketing from 2016-2020, and President-Canada from 2015-2016.

(5) Mr. Throop was appointed an executive officer of Hasbro in February 2020. He has served as Chief Executive Officer of eOne since 2003.

(6) Prior thereto, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Global Operations, from 2012 to 2017.

(7) Prior thereto, Chief Operating Officer, Commercial Markets from 2018 to 2019; prior thereto, President, Hasbro North America from 2011 to 2018.

(8) Prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary from 2018 to 2019 and Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel from 2010 to 2018.

26
Availability of Information

Our internet address is http://www.hasbro.com. We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, available free of charge on or through the investor section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website at www.hasbro.com, under “Corporate — Investors”, SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels as well as social media to communicate with our shareholders and the public about our Company, our products and other matters. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our Company to review the information we post on the social media channels listed on our investor relations website. Hasbro has used, and intends to continue to use, our investor relations website, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Further corporate governance information, including our articles of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, and code of business conduct and ethics, is also available on our investor relations website https://hasbro.gcs-web.com, under “Corporate — Investors — Corporate Governance.” The contents of our website are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.

27
Item 1A. Risk Factors.