Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. Our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations.

Foreign Exchange Rates

We sell the majority of our products in transactions denominated in U.S. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. With our international commercial presence, we also have foreign entities that purchase raw materials and finished goods in U.S. dollars. We are also exposed to foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates have on the reported results in our consolidated financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. Our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the Australian dollar, Euro, Canadian dollar and Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar. We use forward foreign exchange contracts, cross-currency swap contracts and nonderivative financial instruments to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward foreign exchange and cross-currency swap derivative contracts. At January 1, 2022, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying currency price, the potential change in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments would be unfavorable by approximately $28 million.

Interest Rates

Our debt under the Revolving Loan Facility, the Term Loan A and the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility bears interest at variable rates. As a result, we are exposed to changes in market interest rates that could impact the cost of servicing our debt. Approximately 70% of our total debt outstanding at January 1, 2022 is at a fixed rate. A 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt balances as of January 1, 2022 would result in a change in annual interest expense of approximately $3 million.

Commodity Prices

We are exposed to commodity price fluctuations primarily as a result of the cost of materials that are used in our manufacturing process. Cotton is the primary raw material used in manufacturing many of our products. Under our current agreements with our primary yarn suppliers, we have the ability to periodically fix the cotton cost component of our yarn purchases so that the suppliers bear the risk of cotton price fluctuation for the specified yarn volume and interim fluctuations in the price of cotton do not impact our costs. However, our business can be affected by sustained dramatic movements in cotton prices. 

In addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam, as well as affect our transportation and utility costs. We generally purchase raw materials at market prices.

46
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data