Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

Interest Rate Risk. We have exposure to interest rate risk in connection with our long-term debt portfolio. We use interest rate swap agreements to manage our fixed/floating rate debt portfolio, none of which are for trading or speculative purposes. At January 30, 2022, after giving consideration to our interest rate swap agreements, floating rate debt principal was $5.7 billion, or approximately 16% of our senior notes portfolio, and the fair values of our interest rate swap agreements totaled $191 million. The changes in the fair values of our interest rate swap agreements offset the changes in the fair value of the hedged long-term debt. Based on our January 30, 2022 floating rate debt principal, a one percentage point increase in the interest rate of floating-rate debt would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $57 million. 

The United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority announced the phased cessation of publication of LIBOR beginning after 2021 and continuing through 2023. While the discontinuance of LIBOR tenors that are scheduled to occur in 2023 will impact certain of our credit arrangements and interest rate swaps, we do not anticipate the transition to a new reference rate will have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk. We are exposed to risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on the translation of our foreign operations into U.S. dollars and on the purchase of goods by these foreign operations that are not denominated in their local currencies. We use derivative and nonderivative instruments to hedge a portion of our foreign currency exchange rate risk, none of which are for trading or speculative purposes. Our foreign currency related hedging arrangements outstanding at the end of fiscal 2021 were not material. 

Commodity Price Risk. We experience inflation and deflation related to our purchase of certain commodity products. This price volatility could potentially have a material impact on our financial condition and/or our results of operations. In order to mitigate price volatility, we monitor commodity price fluctuations and may adjust our selling prices accordingly; however, our ability to recover higher costs through increased pricing may be limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. We currently do not use derivative instruments to manage these risks.

33
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.