QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS

Information relating to market risks is included within Liquidity and Capital Resources of our Form 10-K under the caption “Financial Instruments”.

38 Honeywell International Inc.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

(Dollars in tables in millions)

We continue to manage our businesses to maximize operating cash flows as the primary source of liquidity. Each of our businesses is focused on increasing operating cash flows through revenue growth, margin expansion, and improved working capital turnover. Additional sources of liquidity include committed credit lines, short-term debt from the commercial paper market, long-term borrowings, access to the public debt and equity markets, U.S. cash balances, and the ability to access non-U.S. cash balances.

CASH

We monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents on a daily basis. Our emphasis is primarily safety of principal and secondarily maximizing yield of those funds. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, we held $11.5 billion and $15.2 billion, respectively, of cash and cash equivalents, including our short-term investments. 

BORROWINGS

Consolidated total borrowings were $19.6 billion and $22.4 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A source of liquidity is our ability to access the commercial paper market. Commercial paper notes are sold at a discount or premium and have a maturity of not more than 365 days from date of issuance. Borrowings under the commercial paper program are available for general corporate purposes as well as for financing acquisitions. The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper and other short-term borrowings outstanding were 0.07% and 0.27% as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.

We also have the following revolving credit agreements:

•A $1.5 billion 364-Day Credit Agreement (the 364-Day Credit Agreement) with a syndicate of banks, dated March 31, 2021, and amended on November 18, 2021. This 364-Day Credit Agreement is maintained for general corporate purposes. The 364-Day Credit Agreement replaced the 364-day credit agreement dated as of April 10, 2020, which was terminated on March 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2021, there were no outstanding borrowings under our 364-Day Credit Agreement.

•A $4.0 billion Five Year Credit Agreement (the 5-Year Credit Agreement) with a syndicate of banks, dated March 31, 2021, and amended on November 18, 2021. This 5-Year Credit Agreement is maintained for general corporate purposes. Commitments under the 5-Year Credit Agreement can be increased pursuant to the terms of the 5-Year Credit Agreement to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4.5 billion. The 5-Year Credit Agreement amended and restated the previously reported $4.0 billion amended and restated five-year credit agreement dated as of April 26, 2019. As of December 31, 2021, there were no outstanding borrowings under our 5-Year Credit Agreement.

We also have a current shelf registration statement filed with the SEC under which we may issue additional debt securities, common stock, and preferred stock that may be offered in one or more offerings on terms to be determined at the time of the offering. We anticipate that net proceeds of any offering would be used for general corporate purposes, including repayment of existing indebtedness, share repurchases, capital expenditures and acquisitions.

Honeywell International Inc. 39

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

CREDIT RATINGS

Our ability to access the global debt capital markets and the related cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and market conditions. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by the major independent debt-rating agencies. As of December 31, 2021, S&P Global Inc. (S&P), Fitch Ratings Inc. (Fitch), and Moody’s Investor Service (Moody's) have ratings on our debt set forth in the table below: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CASH FLOW SUMMARY 

Our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2021 compared with 2020 

Cash provided by operating activities decreased primarily due to an unfavorable impact to working capital, partially offset by the increase in net income attributable to Honeywell during 2021, which excludes the 2020 non-cash charges associated with the reduction in value of the reimbursement receivables due from Garrett Motion Inc. (Garrett).

Cash used for investing activities increased by $74 million primarily due to a $1,065 million increase in cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and $120 million net increase in investments, partially offset by $586 million cash receipts from Garrett, $341 million increase in cash receipts from settlements of derivative contracts, and $203 million in proceeds from the sale of the retail footwear business.

Cash used for financing activities increased by $8,173 million primarily due to a $7,608 million decrease in proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and a $609 million increase in repayments of long-term debt, partially offset by a decrease in repurchases of common stock of $334 million.

40 Honeywell International Inc.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

CASH REQUIREMENTS AND ASSESSMENT OF CURRENT LIQUIDITY

In addition to our normal operating cash requirements, our principal future cash requirements will be to fund capital expenditures, share repurchases, dividends, strategic acquisitions, and debt repayments. Specifically, we expect our primary cash requirements in 2022 to be as follows:

•Capital expenditures—we expect to spend approximately $1.2 billion for capital expenditures in 2022 primarily for growth, production and capacity expansion, implementation of cost reduction measures, maintenance, and replacement.

•Share repurchases—under our share repurchase program, $7.1 billion was available as of December 31, 2021 for additional share repurchases. We expect to repurchase outstanding shares from time to time to offset the dilutive impact of employee stock-based compensation plans, including option exercises, restricted unit vesting and matching contributions under our savings plans. Additionally, we will seek to reduce share count via share repurchases as and when attractive opportunities arise. The amount and timing of future repurchases may vary depending on market conditions and our level of operating, financing and other investing activities.

•Dividends—we increased our quarterly dividend rate by 5% to $0.98 per share of common stock effective with the fourth quarter 2021 dividend. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends in 2022. 

We continue to identify opportunities to improve our liquidity and working capital efficiency, which includes the extension of payment terms with our suppliers. In addition, multiple third-party financial institutions offer a voluntary supply chain financing (SCF) program which enables our suppliers, at their sole discretion, to sell their receivables from the Company to these financial institutions on terms that are negotiated between the supplier and the respective financial institution. We agree on commercial terms for the goods and services we procure from our suppliers, including prices, quantities and payment terms, regardless of whether the supplier elects to participate in the SCF program. Our suppliers’ voluntary participation in the SCF program has no bearing on our payment terms and we have no economic interest in a supplier’s decision to participate in the SCF program. 

Amounts due to our suppliers that elected to participate in the SCF programs are included in Accounts payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. At December 31, 2021, Accounts payable included approximately $700 million payable to suppliers who have elected to participate in the SCF program. Amounts settled with third-party financial institutions through the SCF program increased approximately $300 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2021, reflects a combination of an extension of payment terms with suppliers and increased utilization of our SCF program. All activity related to amounts due to suppliers that elected to participate in the SCF program is reflected in Cash flows from operating activities in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. While access to SCF could decrease if our credit ratings are downgraded, we do not believe that changes in the availability of SCF will have a significant impact on our liquidity. The impact of this program is not material to our overall liquidity. 

We sell trade receivables to unaffiliated financial institutions without recourse. Transfers of the receivables are accounted for as sales and, accordingly, receivables sold are excluded from Accounts receivable—net on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and are reflected in Cash flows from operating activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The difference between the carrying amount of the trade receivables sold and the cash received is recorded in Cost of products and services sold on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. 

Finally, we continue to assess the relative strength of each business in our portfolio as to strategic fit, market position, profit and cash flow contribution in order to identify target investment and acquisition opportunities in order to upgrade our combined portfolio. We identify acquisition candidates that will further our strategic plan and strengthen our existing core businesses. We also identify businesses that do not fit into our long-term strategic plan based on their market position, relative profitability or growth potential. These businesses are considered for potential divestiture, restructuring, or other repositioning actions, subject to regulatory constraints. 

Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our future operating cash needs. Our available cash, committed credit lines and access to the public debt and equity markets provide additional sources of short-term and long-term liquidity to fund current operations, debt maturities, and future investment opportunities.

See Note 9 Long-term Debt and Credit Agreements of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of items impacting our liquidity.

Honeywell International Inc. 41

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

Following is a summary of our significant contractual obligations and probable liability payments at December 31, 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Assumes all long-term debt is outstanding until scheduled maturity.

(2)Purchase obligations are entered into with various vendors in the normal course of business and are consistent with our expected requirements.

(3)The payment amounts in the table only reflect the environmental liabilities which are probable and reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2021.

(4)These amounts are estimates of asbestos related cash payments for NARCO and Bendix based on our asbestos related liabilities which are probable and reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2021. See Asbestos Matters in Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

(5)These amounts represent our insurance recoveries that are deemed probable for asbestos related liabilities as of December 31, 2021. See Asbestos Matters in Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

(6)The table excludes tax liability payments, including those for unrecognized tax benefits. See Note 5 Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

(7)The table excludes expected proceeds from the indemnification and reimbursement agreements entered into with Resideo. See Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

ASBESTOS MATTERS

Payments, net of insurance recoveries, related to known asbestos matters were $240 million, $229 million and $163 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and are estimated to be approximately $220 million in 2022. We expect to make payment associated with these asbestos matters from operating cash flows. The timing of these payments depends on several factors, including the timing of litigation and settlements of liability claims. 

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Accruals during the year for environmental matters deemed probable and reasonably estimable were $168 million, $173 million and $213 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. In addition, for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, we incurred operating costs for ongoing businesses of approximately $88 million, $88 million and $99 million, respectively, relating to compliance with environmental regulations.

Payments related to known environmental matters were $210 million, $216 million and $256 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and are estimated to be approximately $225 million in 2022. We expect to make payment associated with these environmental matters from operating cash flows. The timing of these payments depends on several factors, including the timing of litigation and settlements of remediation liability, personal injury and property damage claims, regulatory approval of cleanup projects, execution timeframe of projects, remedial techniques to be utilized and agreement with other parties.

Reimbursements from Resideo for payments related to environmental matters at certain sites, as defined in the indemnification and reimbursement agreement, were $140 million in 2021 and are expected to be $140 million in 2022. 

See Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our environmental matters and the indemnification and reimbursement agreement entered into with Resideo.

42 Honeywell International Inc.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce our risks from interest and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Derivative financial instruments are not used for trading or other speculative purposes and we do not use leveraged derivative financial instruments.

The following table illustrates the potential change in fair value for interest rate sensitive instruments based on a hypothetical immediate one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and the potential change in fair value for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments based on a 10% weakening of the U.S. Dollar versus local currency exchange rates across all maturities at December 31, 2021 and 2020.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Asset or (liability).

(2)A hypothetical immediate one percentage point decrease in interest rates across all maturities and a potential change in fair value of foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments based on a 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar versus local currency exchange rates across all maturities will result in a change in fair value approximately equal to the inverse of the amount disclosed in the table.

(3)Changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange contracts are offset by changes in the fair value, cash flows, or net investments of underlying hedged foreign currency transactions or foreign operations.

See Note 11 Derivative Instruments and Hedging Transactions to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Honeywell International Inc. 43

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is based on the selection and application of accounting policies that require us to make significant estimates and assumptions about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Many estimates and assumptions involved in the application of accounting principles have a material impact on reported financial condition and operating performance and on the comparability of such reported information over different reporting periods. Critical accounting estimates or assumptions are those where the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. We consider the estimates and assumptions discussed below to be critical to the understanding of our financial statements. Actual results could differ from our estimates and assumptions, and any such differences could be material to our consolidated financial statements.

Sales Recognition on Long-Term Contracts—We recognize sales for long-term contracts with performance obligations satisfied over time using either an input or output method. We recognize revenue over time as we perform on these contracts based on the continuous transfer of control to the customer. With control transferring over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. We generally use the cost-to-cost input method of progress for our contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs. Under the cost-to-cost input method, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the proportion of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation. Due to the nature of the work required to be performed on many of our performance obligations, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion requires judgment. Contract revenues are largely determined by negotiated contract prices and quantities, modified by our assumptions regarding contract options, change orders, incentive and award provisions associated with technical performance and price adjustment clauses (such as inflation or index-based clauses). Cost estimates are largely based on negotiated or estimated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends and other economic projections. Significant factors that influence these estimates include inflationary trends, technical and schedule risk, internal and subcontractor performance trends, business volume assumptions, asset utilization, and anticipated labor agreements. Revenue and cost estimates are regularly monitored and revised based on changes in circumstances. Impacts from changes in estimates of net sales and cost of sales are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods based on a performance obligation’s percentage of completion. Anticipated losses on long-term contracts are recognized when such losses become evident. We maintain financial controls over the customer qualification, contract pricing and estimation processes to reduce the risk of contract losses.

Income Taxes—On a recurring basis, we assess the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets by considering all available positive and negative evidence, such as past operating results, projections of future taxable income, enacted tax law changes and the feasibility and impact of tax planning initiatives. Our projections of future taxable income include a number of estimates and assumptions regarding our volume, pricing and costs, as well as the timing and amount of reversals of taxable temporary differences.

We recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, including resolution of any related appeals and litigation. We assess our income tax positions based upon our evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. 

For further discussion of additional income tax policies, see Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

44 Honeywell International Inc.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Impairment Testing—Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to annual, or more frequent if necessary, impairment testing. In testing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, the fair value is estimated utilizing a discounted cash flow approach utilizing cash flow forecasts, including strategic and annual operating plans, adjusted for terminal value assumptions. These impairment tests involve the use of accounting estimates and assumptions, changes in which could materially impact our financial condition or operating performance if actual results differ from such estimates and assumptions. To address this uncertainty, we perform sensitivity analyses on key estimates and assumptions. Once the fair value is determined, if the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, it is impaired. Any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying amount and its fair value. 

Finite-Lived Intangible Assets—The determination of useful lives (for depreciation/amortization purposes) and whether or not intangible assets are impaired involves the use of accounting estimates and assumptions, changes in which could materially impact our financial condition or operating performance if actual results differ from such estimates and assumptions. We evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our finite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a finite-lived intangible asset group may not be fully recoverable. The principal factors in considering when to perform an impairment review are as follows:

•Significant under-performance (i.e., declines in sales, earnings or cash flows) of a business or product line in relation to expectations;

•Annual operating plans or strategic plan outlook that indicate an unfavorable trend in operating performance of a business or product line;

•Significant negative industry or economic trends; or

•Significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets.

Once it is determined that an impairment review is necessary, recoverability of assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset grouping to the estimated future undiscounted cash flows. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows, the asset grouping is considered to be impaired. The impairment is then measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset grouping and its fair value. We endeavor to utilize the best information available to measure fair value, which is usually either market prices (if available), level 1 or level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, or an estimate of the future discounted cash flow, level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The key estimates in our discounted cash flow analysis include assumptions as to expected industry and business growth rates, sales volume, selling prices and costs, cash flows, and the discount rate selected. These estimates are subject to changes in the economic environment, including market interest rates and expected volatility. Management believes the estimates of future cash flows and fair values are reasonable; however, changes in estimates due to variance from assumptions could materially affect the valuations.

Defined Benefit Pension Plans—We sponsor both funded and unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans. For financial reporting purposes, net periodic pension (income) expense is calculated annually based upon various actuarial assumptions, including a discount rate for plan obligations and an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Changes in the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets could materially affect the annual pension (income) expense amount. Annual pension (income) expense is comprised of service and interest cost, assumed return on plan assets, prior service amortization (Pension ongoing (income) expense) and a potential mark-to-market adjustment (MTM Adjustment).

The key assumptions used in developing our net periodic pension (income) expense for our U.S. plans included the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The MTM Adjustment represents the recognition of net actuarial gains or losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the fair value of plan assets or the plans’ projected benefit obligation (the corridor). Net actuarial gains and losses occur when the actual experience differs from any of the various assumptions used to value our pension plans or when assumptions change. The primary factors contributing to actuarial gains and losses are changes in the discount rate used to value pension obligations as of the measurement date each year and the difference between expected and actual returns on plan assets. The mark-to-market accounting method results in the potential for volatile and difficult to forecast MTM Adjustments. MTM Adjustments were expenses of $40 million, $44 million and $123 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

Honeywell International Inc. 45

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

We determine the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets utilizing historical plan asset returns over varying long-term periods combined with our expectations of future market conditions and asset mix considerations (see Note 20 Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the actual various asset classes and targeted asset allocation percentages for our pension plans). We plan to use an expected rate of return on plan assets of 6.40% for 2022, which is an increase in the assumption used for 2021.

The discount rate reflects the market rate on December 31 (measurement date) for high-quality fixed-income investments with maturities corresponding to our benefit obligations and is subject to change each year. The discount rate can be volatile from year to year as it is determined based upon prevailing interest rates as of the measurement date. We used a 2.87% discount rate to determine benefit obligations as of December 31, 2021, reflecting an increase in the market interest rate environment since the prior year-end.

In addition to the potential for MTM Adjustments, changes in our expected rate of return on plan assets and discount rate resulting from economic events also affects future Pension ongoing (income) expense. The following table highlights the sensitivity of our U.S. pension obligations and ongoing (income) expense to changes in these assumptions, assuming all other assumptions remain constant. These estimates exclude any potential MTM Adjustment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Pension ongoing income for our world-wide pension plans is expected to be approximately $1,008 million in 2022 compared with Pension ongoing income of $1,083 million in 2021. The expected decrease in pension income is primarily due to lower expected return on plan assets caused by a change in allocation of UK plan assets and higher interest costs caused by increased discount rates in our U.S. and UK plans. Also, if required, a MTM Adjustment will be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2022 in accordance with our pension accounting method as previously described. It is difficult to reliably forecast or predict whether there will be a MTM Adjustment in 2022, and if one is required, what the magnitude of such adjustment will be. MTM Adjustments are primarily driven by events and circumstances beyond the control of the Company such as changes in interest rates and the performance of the financial markets.

Asbestos Related Liabilities and Insurance Recoveries—In connection with the recognition of liabilities for asbestos related matters, we record asbestos related insurance recoveries that are deemed probable. In assessing the probability of insurance recovery, we make judgments concerning insurance coverage that we believe are reasonable and consistent with our historical dealings and our knowledge of any pertinent solvency issues surrounding insurers. While the substantial majority of our insurance carriers are solvent, some of our individual carriers are insolvent, which has been considered in our analysis of probable recoveries. Projecting future events is subject to various uncertainties that could cause the insurance recovery on asbestos related liabilities to be higher or lower than that projected and recorded. Given the inherent uncertainty in making future projections, we reevaluate our projections concerning our probable insurance recoveries considering any changes to the projected liability, our recovery experience or other relevant factors that may impact future insurance recoveries.

Our involvement in asbestos related personal injury actions relates to two predecessor companies. Regarding North American Refractories Company (NARCO) asbestos related claims, we estimate our NARCO asbestos liability for the resolution of asserted NARCO-related asbestos claims which qualify for payment under the NARCO Trust Distribution Procedures (Annual Contribution Claims) and for amounts owed pursuant to settlement agreements reached during the pendency of the NARCO bankruptcy proceedings that provide for the right to submit claims to the NARCO Trust subject to qualification under the terms of the settlement agreements and Trust Distribution Procedures (Pre-Established Unliquidated Claims) using average payment values for the relevant historical period. We estimate our NARCO asbestos liability for unasserted claims based on historic and anticipated claims filing experience and payment rates, disease classifications and type of claim, and average payment values by the NARCO Trust for the relevant historical period. Our estimate also includes all years of epidemiological disease projection through 2059. Regarding Bendix Friction Materials (Bendix) asbestos related claims, we accrued for the estimated value of pending claims using average resolution values for the previous five years. We also accrued for the estimated value of future claims related to Bendix over the full term of epidemiological disease projection through 2059 based on historic and anticipated claims filing experience and dismissal rates, disease classifications, and average resolution values in the tort system for the previous five years. We update our assumptions on average payment values and average resolution values in the fourth quarter of each year. 

See Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of management’s judgments applied in the recognition and measurement of our asbestos related liabilities and related insurance recoveries.

46 Honeywell International Inc.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Contingent Liabilities—We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which involve substantial dollar amounts) that arise out of the conduct of our global business operations or those of previously owned entities, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employee benefit plans, intellectual property, legal and environmental, health and safety matters. We continually assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to our contingencies, as well as potential amounts or ranges of probable losses, and recognize a liability, if any, for these contingencies based on a thorough analysis of each matter with the assistance of outside legal counsel and, if applicable, other experts. Such analysis includes making judgments concerning matters such as the costs associated with environmental matters, the outcome of negotiations, the number and cost of pending and future asbestos claims, and the impact of evidentiary requirements. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new developments (including new discovery of facts, changes in legislation and outcomes of similar cases through the judicial system), changes in assumptions or changes in our settlement strategy. See Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of management’s judgment applied in the recognition and measurement of our environmental and asbestos liabilities which represent our most significant contingencies.

Honeywell International Inc. 47

OTHER MATTERS

LITIGATION 

See Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental, asbestos and other litigation matters.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.

48 Honeywell International Inc.

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The executive officers of Honeywell, listed as follows, are elected annually by the Board of Directors. There are no family relationships among them.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Also a Director.

(b)Mr. Koutsaftes will become President and Chief Executive Officer of Safety and Productivity Solutions and an Executive Officer of the Company effective April 1, 2022, succeeding Mr. Waldron in such position

Honeywell International Inc. 49

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

PROPERTIES

We have approximately 750 locations, of which 210 are manufacturing sites. Our properties and equipment are in good operating condition and are adequate for our present needs. We do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which involve substantial amounts) arising out of the conduct of our business. See a discussion of environmental, asbestos and other litigation matters in Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

There were no matters requiring disclosure pursuant to the requirement to disclose certain environmental matters involving potential monetary sanctions in excess of $300,000. 

MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

One of our wholly-owned subsidiaries has a placer claim for and operates a chabazite ore surface mine in Arizona. Information concerning mine safety and other regulatory matters associated with this mine is required by Section 1503(a) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Item 104 of Regulation S-K and is included in Exhibit 95 to this Form 10-K.

50 Honeywell International Inc.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

Since May 11, 2021, our common stock has been listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (Nasdaq) under the ticker symbol “HON”. Prior to May 11, 2021, our common stock was listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. We increased our quarterly dividend rate by 5% to $0.98 per share of common stock effective with the fourth quarter 2021 dividend. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends in 2022. 

The number of record holders of our common stock at December 31, 2021 was 40,420.

Information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included the section titled Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters under the caption “Equity Compensation Plans.”

We purchased 4,256,144 shares of our common stock, par value $1 per share, in the quarter ended December 31, 2021. On February 12, 2021, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to a total of $10 billion of Honeywell common stock, which included amounts remaining under, and replaced, the previously approved share repurchase program. As of December 31, 2021, $7.1 billion remained available for additional share repurchases. We expect to repurchase outstanding shares from time to time to generally offset the dilutive impact of employee stock-based compensation plans, including option exercises, restricted unit vesting and matching contributions under our savings plans. Additionally, we seek to reduce share count via share repurchases as and when attractive opportunities arise. The amount and timing of future repurchases may vary depending on market conditions and the level of our operating, financing and other investing activities.

The following table summarizes our purchases of Honeywell's common stock for the three months ended December 31, 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Honeywell International Inc. 51

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

PERFORMANCE GRAPH

The following graph compares the five-year cumulative total return on our common stock to the total returns on the S&P 500 Stock Index, composite of S&P’s Industrial Conglomerates and Aerospace and Defense indices, on a 55%/45% weighted basis (the Composite Index) and Nasdaq Industrial Select Sector (XLI Index). The weighting of the components of the Composite Index are based on our segments’ relative contribution to total segment profit. The selection of the Industrial Conglomerates component of the Composite Index reflects the diverse and distinct range of non-aerospace businesses conducted by Honeywell. The annual changes for the five-year period shown in the graph are based on the assumption that $100 was invested in Honeywell stock and each index on December 31, 2016 and that all dividends were reinvested.

Comparison of Cumulative Five Year Total Return

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

52 Honeywell International Inc.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS