ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

INTEREST RATE RISK

GENERAL – We have a formal investment policy that strives to minimize the market risk exposure of our cash equivalents, which are primarily affected by credit quality and movements in interest rates. The guidelines in our investment policy focus on managing liquidity and preserving principal and earnings.

Our cash equivalents are primarily held for liquidity purposes and are comprised of high quality, short-term investments, including money market funds. Because our cash and cash equivalents have a short maturity, our portfolio's market value is relatively insensitive to interest rate changes.

As our CLOC borrowings are generally seasonal, interest rate risk typically increases during the months of November through March. While our CLOC borrowings are relatively insensitive to interest rate changes, interest expense on CLOC borrowings will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates. We had no outstanding balance on our CLOC as of June 30, 2022.

Our long-term debt as of June 30, 2022, consists primarily of fixed-rate Senior Notes; therefore, a change in interest rates would have no impact on consolidated pretax earnings until these notes mature or are refinanced. 

H&R Block, Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K35

The fixed-rate interest payable on our Senior Notes is subject to adjustment based upon our credit ratings. See Item 8, note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. 

FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE RISK

Our operations in international markets are exposed to movements in currency exchange rates. The currencies primarily involved are the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar. We translate revenues and expenses related to these operations at the average of exchange rates in effect during the period. Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates at the end of the year. Translation adjustments are recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income in stockholders' equity. Translation of financial results into U.S. dollars does not presently materially affect, and has not historically materially affected, our consolidated financial results, although such changes do affect the year-to-year comparability of the operating results in U.S. dollars of our international businesses. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates during the period on our international cash balances resulted in a decrease of $8.1 million during the year ended June 30, 2022 compared to an increase of $13.5 million in year ended June 30, 2021. We estimate a 10% change in foreign exchange rates by itself would impact consolidated pretax income in the year ended June 30, 2022 and the year ended June 30, 2021 by $2.8 million and $3.2 million, respectively, and cash balances, excluding restricted balances, as of June 30, 2022 and June 30, 2021 by $18.5 million and $16.4 million, respectively. 

We generally use foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk for loans we advance to our Canadian operations. We had no forward contracts outstanding at June 30, 2022, June 30, 2021, or April 30, 2021.

362022 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA