PART I

Item 1.Business

The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. ("Interpublic," the "Company," "IPG," "we," "us" or "our") was incorporated in Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by Harrison K. McCann. The Company has operated under the Interpublic name since January 1961.

About Us

We are one of the world’s premier global advertising and marketing services companies. With approximately 55,600 employees and operations in all major world markets, our companies specialize in consumer advertising, digital marketing, communications planning and media buying, public relations, specialized communications disciplines and data management. Our agencies create customized marketing solutions for clients that range in scale from large global marketers to regional and local clients. Comprehensive global services are critical to effectively serve our multinational and local clients in markets throughout the world as they seek to build brands, increase sales of their products and services, and gain market share.

The work we produce for our clients is specific to their unique needs. Our solutions vary from project-based activity involving one agency to long-term, fully integrated campaigns created by multiple IPG agencies working together. With operations in over 100 countries, we can operate in a single region or deliver global integrated programs.

The role of our holding company is to provide resources and support to ensure that our agencies can best meet clients’ needs and to facilitate collaborative client service among our agencies. Based in New York City, our holding company sets company-wide financial objectives and corporate strategy, establishes financial management and operational controls, guides personnel policy, directs collaborative inter-agency programs, conducts investor relations, manages environmental, social and governance (ESG) programs, provides enterprise risk management and oversees mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we provide certain centralized functional services that offer our companies operational efficiencies, including accounting and finance, executive compensation management and recruitment assistance, employee benefits, marketing information retrieval and analysis, internal audit, legal services, real estate expertise and travel services.

Our Brands

Interpublic is home to some of the world’s best-known and most innovative communications specialists. We have three global creative networks: McCann Worldgroup, Foote, Cone & Belding ("FCB") and MullenLowe Group, which provide integrated, large-scale advertising and marketing solutions for clients. Our Media, Data and Technology offerings are comprised of Mediabrands' global media services, Acxiom's data and technology capabilities, Kinesso's data-driven marketing solutions, and Matterkind, an innovative media investment offering. We also have a range of best-in-class global specialized communications assets as well as premier domestic integrated and global digital agencies that are industry leaders.

•Media, Data and Technology offerings provide strategic media planning and buying services as well as data management and leading marketing technology services. Our media services agencies manage tens of billions of dollars in marketing investment on behalf of their clients, providing strategic counsel and advisory services to navigate the fast-evolving consumer and media landscape. Full-service global media agencies within the Mediabrands network include UM and Initiative. Additional leading brands and specialist business units include IPG Media Lab, MAGNA, Orion Holdings, Rapport and Reprise. Media solutions are developed and executed through integrated, data-driven marketing strategies. Acxiom, which IPG acquired in 2018, provides the data foundation for many of the world’s largest and most sophisticated marketers. Acxiom's solutions help clients organize, cleanse and store data in a responsible and ethical manner and enhance our ability to provide data-driven marketing insights to our clients. Kinesso, the marketing technology company IPG launched in October 2019, provides the tools and services required to help marketers make traditional and addressable media activation faster, better and more effective through the use of data. In May 2020, we launched Matterkind, an innovative offering that optimizes client media investment, holistically and in real time, across all addressable media channels.

•McCann Worldgroup is a leading global marketing solutions network united across 100+ countries by a single vision: to help brands play a meaningful role in people's lives. The network is comprised of McCann (advertising), MRM (science/technology/relationship marketing), Momentum Worldwide (total brand experience), and CRAFT (production). McCann is aligned with our marketing services agencies including Weber Shandwick (public relations) and FutureBrand (consulting/design).

2
•FCB is a global marketing communications company, named the Global Network of the Year at the Cannes Festival of Creativity in 2020/2021. Based on an understanding of diversified markets and cultures, FCB focuses on creating “Never Finished” ideas for clients that reflect each brand’s past and anticipate its future. FCB also offers a range of best-in-class, integrated and specialist marketing capabilities: shopper-first agency FCB/RED; experiential agency FCBX; production studios Lord + Thomas and FuelContent; CRM agency FCB/SIX; and digital agency New Honor Society.

•Launched in 2021, IPG Health is home to FCB Health and McCann Health, two of the world’s most awarded health marketing agencies, and includes multiple specialized units. In aligning two of the industry’s more recognized agencies, each company is able to deliver a more comprehensive suite of services and comprehensive global reach to healthcare clients. IPG Health sits at the nexus of creativity, digital channels, technology, and data, ready to help clients accelerate their business and impact on lives around the world. The healthcare marketing agencies continue to partner with IPG’s global creative networks, as well as the broader portfolio of media and marketing services providers, using IPG’s collaborative open architecture model.

•MullenLowe Group is a creatively driven integrated marketing communications network with a strong entrepreneurial heritage and challenger mentality. A global creative boutique of distinctive diverse agencies, MullenLowe Group is networked in more than 65 markets. Within the Group's distinctive hyperbundled-operating model, global specializations include expertise in brand strategy, and through-the-line advertising with MullenLowe; digital transformation with MullenLowe Profero; media and communications planning and buying with Mediahub; customer experience activation with MullenLowe Open; and consumer and corporate PR with MullenLowe PR and MullenLowe salt. The group is focused on delivering an “Unfair Share of Attention” for clients and is consistently ranked among the most awarded creative and effective agency networks in the world. Mediahub was named Ad Age Media Agency of the Year in 2020.

•Our IPG DXTRA group is a global collective of 27 marketing specialty brands, anchored across Weber Shandwick, Golin, Octagon, Jack Morton and FutureBrand. IPG DXTRA companies bring together unique combinations of in-demand skills and expertise for clients, including experiential, public relations, crisis and issues management, sponsorships, innovation, brand, influencer, digital, social and analytics in categories as diverse as sports, healthcare, entertainment, CPG, luxury, tech and financial services. DXTRA has exceptional global marketing specialists across a range of disciplines, including industry-leading public relations agencies such as Weber Shandwick, Golin, DeVries Global, and Current Global have expertise in every significant area of communication management. Jack Morton is a global brand experience agency, and FutureBrand is a leading brand consultancy. Octagon is a global sports, entertainment and lifestyle marketing agency. 

•Our domestic integrated independent and digital specialist agencies include some of advertising's most recognizable and storied agency brands, including Carmichael Lynch, Deutsch, Hill Holliday, Huge, and R/GA. The marketing programs created by these agencies incorporate all media channels, CRM, public relations and other digital marketing activities and have helped build some of the most powerful brands in the United States, across all sectors and industries.

We list approximately 100 of our companies on our website under the "Our Companies" section, with descriptions, capabilities and office locations for each. To learn more about our broad range of capabilities, visit our website at www.interpublic.com. Information on our website is not part of this report.

Market Strategy

We operate in a media, consumer and technology ecosystem that continues to evolve at a rapid pace. Media channels continue to fragment, and clients face an increasingly complex consumer environment. To stay ahead of these challenges and to achieve our objectives, we have made and continue to make investments in creative, strategic and technology talent in areas including fast-growth digital marketing channels, high-growth geographic regions and strategic world markets. In addition, we consistently review opportunities within our Company to enhance our operations through acquisitions and strategic alliances and internal programs that encourage intra-company collaboration. As appropriate, we also develop relationships with technology and emerging media companies that are building leading-edge marketing tools that complement our agencies' skill sets and capabilities.

In recent years, we have taken several major strategic steps to position our agencies as leaders in the global advertising and communications market. These include:

•Investment in leading talent: We believe our continued ability to attract and develop top talent and to be the industry’s employer of choice for an increasingly diverse workforce have been key differentiators for IPG. We continue to acquire and develop top strategic, creative and digital talent from a range of backgrounds.

3
•Growing digital capabilities: Our investments in talent and technology - organically growing digital capabilities such as search, social, user experience (UX), content creation, analytics, and mobile across the portfolio - promise to drive further growth in this dynamic sector of our business. We continue to internationalize our powerful digital specialist agencies.

•Data-fueled offerings: Media and marketing is increasingly centered around the ability to manage data to create deeper direct customer relationships. Acxiom provides the tools to help our clients connect with individual consumers at scale. Kinesso furthers this vision by bringing together top data and technology talent with addressable media experts to develop software that amplifies clients' marketing and leverages Acxiom’s assets and capabilities.

•Investments in emerging and strategic markets: We strengthen our position in global markets by driving organic growth as well as completing strategic acquisitions.

•Integrated marketing solutions: A differentiating aspect of our business is our utilization of “open architecture” solutions that integrate the best talent from throughout the organization to fulfill the needs of our clients.

Together, these steps have built a culture of strategic creativity and high performance across IPG. Despite the challenges faced by our industry, clients and workforce, in 2021, we once again delivered strong growth, maintaining our position as the growth leader over multi-year periods among global advertising and marketing companies. This result demonstrates the continued competitiveness of our offerings, the value of our long-term strategy, and the strength of our culture, which is especially significant during unprecedented times.

In 2021, IPG was named Holding Company of the Year at the NY Festivals Advertising Awards, Most Effective Holding Company at the U.S. Effie Awards, and Creative Holding Company of the Year at The One Club. In addition, IPG was included in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index for a second year, and was named to the HRC Corporate Equality Index for the twelfth year.

Data-fueled Offerings

IPG has incorporated data expertise into the core of the Company, as reflected most clearly in our acquisition in 2018 and subsequent integration of Acxiom, a leading enterprise data management company. Understanding data and its power is critical to the current and future success of our Company and our clients. We believe an ethical and conscious approach to data that respects consumer privacy will continue to be crucial as we navigate increased regulation in the digital media space. 

Going forward, we intend to continue to enhance the technology layer within our offerings and to build tech-enabled marketing solutions, informed by a holistic understanding of audiences. This will allow us to deliver personalized user experiences and more accountable marketing for brands. Ultimately, our vision for IPG is to be a key partner in ensuring that clients’ businesses thrive in the digital economy.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

IPG and our agencies are committed to diversity and inclusion, and we reinforce these values through a comprehensive set of award-winning programs. These include business resource groups that develop career building programs, as well as training around topics like unconscious bias. We seek to ensure accountability by tying executive compensation directly to the ability of our leaders to hire, promote and retain diverse talent, and we regularly measure the inclusiveness of our culture with a company-wide climate for inclusion survey.

We began our formal programs over a decade ago. Since then, IPG has seen notable improvements in the diversity of our workforce, and further progress is a management priority. In 2020, IPG became the first advertising holding company to release race and gender composition of its leadership based on its EEO-1 report, and we released our updated report in 2021. We believe that an environment that encourages respect and trust is key to a creative business like ours, and that a competitive advantage comes with having a variety of perspectives and beliefs in our workforce.

Emerging Economies and Strategic Regions

We continue to invest and expand our presence in emerging and strategic geographic regions. Over the last decade, we have made significant investments in important developing markets such as Brazil, India and China, further strengthening our position in these important developing markets. Our operations in India, for example, are best-in-class, and we will continue to invest in partnerships and talent in this key market. We also hold a majority stake in the Middle East Communication Networks (“MCN”), among that region's premier marketing services companies. MCN is headquartered in Dubai, with offices across 12 countries. In China, where we operate with most of our global networks and across the full spectrum of marketing services, we continue to invest organically in the talent of our agency brands and opportunistically acquire specialty offerings. Additional 

4
areas of investment include key strategic markets in North America, the United Kingdom, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Africa.

Acquisition Strategy

A disciplined acquisition strategy, focused on high-growth capabilities and regions of the world, is one component of growing our services in today's rapidly-changing marketing services and media landscape. When an outstanding resource or a strong tactical fit becomes available, we have been opportunistic over the years in making tuck-in, niche acquisitions that enhance our service offerings. 

In recent years, IPG has acquired agencies across the marketing spectrum, including firms specializing in data and tech, e-commerce, mobile marketing, social media, healthcare communications and public relations, as well as agencies with full-service capabilities. These acquired agencies have been integrated into one of our global networks or specialist agencies.

Our People

Because of the service character of our business, the quality of personnel is of crucial importance to our continuing success, and our employees, including creative, digital, research, media and account specialists, and their skills and relationships with clients, are among our most valuable assets. We conduct extensive employee training and development throughout our agencies and benchmark our compensation programs against those of our industry for their competitiveness and effectiveness in recruitment and retention. There is keen competition for qualified employees.

As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 55,600 people, of which approximately 23,300 were employed in the United States.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We employ a balanced approach in managing our human capital resources. Depending on where a human-capital management function is most effective or efficient, processes are either managed at the holding company or designated to our operating units to adopt strategies appropriate for their client sector, workforce makeup, talent requirements and business demands. 

The holding company retains oversight of all human capital resources and activities, setting standards and providing support and policy guidance and sharing programs. At the corporate center, centralized human capital management processes include development of human resources governance and policy; executive compensation for senior leaders across the Company; benefits programs; succession planning focusing on the performance, development and retention of the Company’s senior-most executives and key roles in the operating units; and executive development.

IPG sets specific standards for human capital management and, on a yearly basis, assesses each operating unit’s performance in managing and developing its workforce. We undertake human capital initiatives with an aim of ensuring that employees have the high level of competence and commitment our businesses need to succeed. We formally assess our operating units against their efforts in the areas of people development, diversity and inclusion, performance management, talent acquisition and organization development in order to drive or support the units’ strategic business and growth goals. Accordingly, the operating units create and deploy skills-training programs, management training, employee goal-setting and feedback platforms, applicant-tracking systems, new-employee onboarding processes, and other programs intended to enhance the performance and engagement of the workforce.

As discussed above under Market Strategy — Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, diversity, equity and inclusion are essential priorities for IPG. Our goal is that our talent represents the diversity of our communities and consumers, with a corporate culture that drives belonging, well-being and growth. We believe that such a workplace will enable us to provide cultural insights to help our clients make authentic and responsible connections with their customers. The programs we provide in support of diversity, equity and inclusion include events, training and curated and bespoke content, research and tools, to foster 

5
awareness and action on an array of critical issues that we believe are vital for the recruitment, retention, advancement, well-being and belonging for people who are part of under-represented groups. We also foster business resource groups that offer programs on all facets of diversity and inclusion in support of specific communities of employees. 

Environmental Sustainability Initiatives

Interpublic is committed to operating sustainably. On the environmental front, this commitment includes measuring our carbon footprint and working toward limiting that footprint. We plan to continue to report regularly on our greenhouse gas emissions, eliminate as much carbon as possible from our operations and offset emissions where we cannot eliminate them. 

To further its environmental goals, the Company plans to limit carbon emissions and manage water usage and reduce waste by focusing on several areas:

•using energy and water more efficiently, 

•managing travel efficiently, 

•employing green building practices in our real estate holdings, 

•tracking progress on sustainability metrics, and 

•expanding recycling programs. 

In June 2021, Interpublic announced that as part of its commitment to environmental sustainability, the Company is moving forward on an ambitious climate action plan that consists of three simultaneous quantitative goals:

•Science-Based Targets: The Company committed to set an emissions reduction target in line with limiting global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius through the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). This commitment also makes Interpublic a signatory to the Business Ambition for 1.5°C and a member of the United Nations-backed Race to Zero campaign.

•Renewable Electricity: The Company also committed to sourcing 100% renewable electricity by 2030 for its entire portfolio.

•Net-Zero Carbon Emissions: Additionally, the Company formally joined The Climate Pledge, a commitment to reaching net-zero carbon across our business by 2040.

As part of our sustainability efforts and to record our commitments and progress, we currently report annually on our energy use and greenhouse gas emissions, which we began measuring in 2015, with an eye toward reducing both, into several platforms, including the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”), the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”).

In our 2020 GRI report, IPG, for the first time, reported the operational emissions (scope one and scope two emissions) across its entire global portfolio. In 2021, we expanded our assessment of and reporting on scope three emissions to account for and work on reducing impacts throughout the Company’s entire value chain. 

We have responded to the annual CDP Climate Change survey for over a decade. In 2021, we published our first SASB report in alignment with SASB’s Advertising & Marketing Sustainability Accounting Standard.

As part of its sustainability efforts, IPG supports numerous community-based organizations and is actively involved in partnerships that bring together companies to advance diversity, equity and inclusion, and climate action. Among these, IPG is a founding member of AdGreen, a trade organization with a goal of supporting the advertising industry as it moves toward a net-zero carbon future for advertising production. We are also an active supporter of the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 17 global goals adopted by the United Nations General Assembly as part of its 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We have specifically adopted SDG #6: Access to water and sanitation for all.

In recognition of our commitment to and implementation of sustainable business practices, IPG is listed on several ESG-related indices. For the second year, IPG has been included on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) North America. The DJSI North America scores and ranks the ESG performance of the 600 largest U.S. and Canadian companies; the top 20% of sustainability performers are listed on the Index. IPG is the only advertising holding company on the Index. IPG was also listed on the S&P 500 ESG and the S&P Global 1200 ESG, two S&P indices that recognize companies’ work in the ESG space. The Company is also included on the FTSE4Good Index, which identifies companies that demonstrate strong ESG practices measured against international standards.

Our latest GRI report, SASB report and CDP response are available on the “Sustainability Reporting and Disclosures” page of our website, www.interpublic.com. Information on our website is not part of this report.

Impact of COVID-19

6
In March 2020, the World Health Organization categorized the disease caused by the novel coronavirus ("COVID-19") as a pandemic, and it continues to spread extensively throughout the United States and the rest of the world, particularly in recent months with the impact of the Omicron variant of the COVID-19 virus identified in the fourth quarter of 2021. The outbreak of COVID-19 and public and private sector measures to reduce its transmission, such as business closures and limits on operations, the adoption of social distancing measures and public and private mandates to work-from-home, stay-at-home and shelter-in-place, in particular in the early months of the pandemic, adversely impacted our business and demand for our services as some businesses adjusted, reduced or suspended operating activities, which negatively impacted the markets we serve and our results of operations, cash flows and financial position throughout 2020. In 2021, despite the economic and health impacts from the spread of the Delta and Omicron variants of the COVID-19 virus, we positively benefited from the effects of robust economic recovery in many of our principal markets as vaccination efforts took hold and the overall public health situation improved in many markets. We continue to believe that our focus on our strategic strengths, which include talent, our differentiated go-to-market strategy, data management capabilities, and the relevance of our offerings, position us well to navigate a rapidly changing marketplace. The future course of the pandemic is unpredictable, and the extent of its impact on our business will vary depending on the duration and severity of the continuing economic and operational impacts of COVID-19. The impact of the variants identified in 2021 and the pace of improvements in health and economic conditions has not been uniform across all geographies and could be threatened by such factors as the continued spread of the Omicron or other variants to the COVID-19 virus and limitations on the effectiveness of mass vaccination and other public health efforts to mitigate the impact of the pandemic.

At the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we responded swiftly in support of our people, our clients and our communities. To protect our employees, and to do our part in stopping the spread of COVID-19, within days, 95 percent of our global workforce had moved to a remote work environment. Prior to the rapid spread of the Omicron variant in the fourth quarter of 2021, a significant portion of our workforce had begun to return to the office at least part of the time, although much of our worldwide workforce continues to work from home. We recognized the importance of regular communication to reassure employees and to keep them updated on our plans as the pandemic continues to unfold. We have adopted an approach of “organized flexibility” and continue to adjust our policies and practices to facilitate the new working environments and take into account the need of many employees to work during non-traditional hours and juggle home lives and work responsibilities.

We believe we have had significant success in maintaining and continuing to advance the quality of our services notwithstanding extensive changes required by the pandemic. With respect to managing costs, we undertook multiple initiatives to align our expenses with changes in revenue. The steps we took in 2020 across our agencies and corporate group included deferred merit increases, freezes on hiring and temporary labor, major cuts in non-essential spending, staff reductions and furloughs and salary reductions, including voluntary salary reductions for our senior corporate management team. These actions were discontinued in 2021 as revenue growth returned.

In 2020, the Company also took restructuring actions to lower our operating expenses structurally and permanently relative to revenue and to accelerate the transformation of our business. Most of these actions were based on our experience and learning in the COVID-19 pandemic and a resulting review of our operations. Notably, we foresee a greater role for work-from-home in a hybrid office-home model to deliver and support our services in a post-COVID world.

We discuss these restructuring actions as well as steps to strengthen our financial position that we undertook in 2020 in more detail in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”).

Financial Objectives

Our financial goals include competitive organic net revenue growth and expansion of Adjusted EBITA margin, as defined and discussed within the Non-GAAP Financial Measure section of the MD&A, which we expect will further strengthen our balance sheet and total liquidity and increase value to our shareholders. Accordingly, we remain focused on meeting the evolving needs of our clients while concurrently managing our cost structure. Our disciplined approach to our balance sheet and liquidity provides us with a solid financial foundation and financial flexibility to manage and grow our business. We believe that our strategy and execution position us to meet our financial goals and to deliver long-term value to all of our shareholders.

Financial Reporting Segments

We have two reportable segments, which are Integrated Agency Networks (“IAN”) and IPG DXTRA. IAN is comprised of McCann Worldgroup, FCB, MullenLowe Group, Media, Data Services and Tech which includes Mediabrands, Acxiom, Kinesso and Matterkind, our digital specialist agencies and our domestic integrated agencies. IPG DXTRA is comprised of a number of our specialist marketing services offerings in public relations, sports and experiential marketing and branding. We also report results for the “Corporate and other” group. See Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further information.

7
Effective January 1, 2022, the Company completed a managerial and operational review and has undertaken several organizational initiatives. As a result of these modifications, we will be changing our reportable segments beginning with our Form 10-Q filing for the first quarter of fiscal 2022 to include three reportable segments. Prior period segment information will be recast to reflect our new reportable segments. Our new reportable segment disclosures will reflect our revised organizational alignment as well as the manner in which we will manage our business.

Sources of Revenue

Our revenues are primarily derived from the planning and execution of multi-channel advertising, marketing and communications programs around the world. Our revenues are directly dependent upon the advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements of our existing clients and our ability to win new clients. Most of our client contracts are individually negotiated, and, accordingly, the terms of client engagements and the bases on which we earn commissions and fees vary significantly. As is customary in the industry, our contracts generally provide for termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually 30 to 90 days, although our data management contracts typically have non-cancelable terms of more than one year.

Revenues for the creation and production of advertising or the planning and placement of media are determined primarily on a negotiated fee basis and, to a lesser extent, on a commission basis. Fees are usually calculated to reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead and a mark-up. Many clients include an incentive compensation component in their total compensation package. This provides added revenue based on achieving mutually agreed-upon qualitative or quantitative metrics within specified time periods. Commissions are earned based on services provided. 

We also generate revenue from data and technology offerings and in negotiated fees from our public relations, sales promotion, experiential marketing, sports and entertainment marketing, and corporate and brand identity services.

In most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on behalf of clients, as is customary in the advertising and marketing industries. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges after we have received funds from our clients, and in some instances we agree with the provider that we will only be liable to pay the production and media costs after the client has paid us for the charges. Generally, we act as the client’s agent rather than the primary obligor in these arrangements.

Our revenue is typically lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Clients

Our large and diverse client base includes many of the most recognizable companies and brands throughout the world. Our holding company structure allows us to maintain a diversified client base across and within a full range of industry sectors. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on net revenue accounted for approximately 20% of net revenue in 2021 and 20% in 2020. Our largest client accounted for approximately 4% and 3% of net revenue in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Based on net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021, our largest client sectors (in alphabetical order) were financial services, healthcare, and technology and telecom. We represent several different clients, brands or divisions within each of these sectors in a number of geographic markets, as well as provide services across multiple advertising and marketing disciplines, in each case through more than one of our agency brands. Representation of a client rarely means that we handle advertising for all brands or product lines of the client in all geographical locations. Any client may transfer its business from one of our agencies to another one of our agencies or to a competing agency, and a client may change its marketing budget at any time.

We operate in a highly competitive advertising and marketing communications industry. Our operating companies compete against other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies as well as numerous independent and niche agencies and new forms of market participants to win new clients and maintain existing client relationships.

Regulatory Environment

The advertising and marketing services that our agencies provide are subject to governmental regulation and other action in all of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. While these governmental regulations and other actions can impact the 

8
Company’s operations, the specific marketing regulations we may face in a given market do not as a general matter significantly impact the Company’s overall service offerings or the nature in which we provide these services.

Governments, government agencies and industry self-regulatory bodies have adopted laws, regulations and standards, and judicial bodies have issued rulings, that directly or indirectly affect the form and content of advertising, public relations and other marketing activities we produce or conduct on behalf of our clients. These laws, regulations and other actions include content-related rules with respect to specific products and services, restrictions on media scheduling and placement, required disclosures regarding influencers and other endorsers and labeling or warning requirements with respect to certain products, for example pharmaceuticals, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, and food and nutritional supplements. We are also subject to rules related to marketing directed to certain groups, such as children.

Digital marketing services are a dynamic and growing sector of our business. Our service offerings in this area are covered by laws and regulations concerning user privacy, use of personal information, data protection and online tracking technologies. We are also subject to laws and regulations that govern whether and how we can transfer, process or receive certain data that we use in our operations, including data shared between countries or regions in which we operate. While we maintain policies and operational procedures to promote effective privacy protection and data management, existing and proposed laws and regulations in this area, such as the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) in the European Union, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”), the Colorado Privacy Act and the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act in the United States and other different forms of privacy legislation enacted or under consideration across the markets in which we operate, can impact the development, efficacy and profitability of internet-based and other digital marketing. Limitations on the scheduling, content or delivery of direct marketing activities can likewise impact the activities of our agencies offering those services.

With agencies and clients located in over 100 countries worldwide, we are also subject to laws governing our international operations. These include broad anti-corruption laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and the U.K. Bribery Act (2010), which generally prohibit the making or offering of improper payments to government officials and political figures. Export controls and economic sanctions regimes, such as those maintained by the U.S. government and comparable ones by the U.K., the member states of the European Union and the U.N., impose limitations on the Company’s ability to operate in certain geographic regions or to seek or service certain potential clients. Likewise, our Treasury operations must comply with exchange controls, restrictions on currency repatriation and the control requirements of applicable anti-money-laundering statutes.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports are available, free of charge, on our website at www.interpublic.com under the "For Investors" section, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") at www.sec.gov.

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Interpublic Group Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct and the charters for each of the Audit Committee, Compensation and Leadership Talent Committee, and Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committee are available, free of charge, on our website at www.interpublic.com in the "Corporate Governance" subsection of the "About" section. Information on our website is not part of this report.

9
Executive Officers of IPG

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

There is no family relationship among any of the executive officers.

Mr. Krakowsky is Chief Executive Officer of IPG, a role he assumed on January 1, 2021. He is also a member of IPG’s Board of Directors. Prior to being named IPG's CEO, Mr. Krakowsky served as the company’s Chief Operating Officer beginning in September 2019, managing business operations across Interpublic, with direct oversight of IPG’s independent companies including Carmichael Lynch, Deutsch, Hill Holliday, Huge and R/GA and IPG's Media, Data and Technology offerings including IPG Mediabrands, Acxiom, Kinesso and Matterkind. During that time, Mr. Krakowsky was also Chairman of IPG Mediabrands. Over the course of his nearly two-decade tenure at IPG, Mr. Krakowsky has also led the strategy, talent, communications and business development functions for the holding company. Before taking on the COO role at IPG, Mr. Krakowsky spent a number of years as CEO of Mediabrands, leading the 10,500-person media investment unit, as well as served as interim-CEO of FCB. From February 2011 until assuming the role of COO, Mr. Krakowsky was also IPG’s Chief Strategy and Talent Officer, where he oversaw key functions that have been vital to the company’s development and growth.

Ms. Johnson became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective January 1, 2020. Prior to that time, Ms. Johnson served as Senior Vice President of Finance and Treasurer from February 2013 to December 31, 2020, and as Senior Vice President and Treasurer from October 2004 to February 2013. She served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of The Partnership, a division of IPG from May 2004 to October 2004, and prior to that, served as Assistant Treasurer, International from February 2000 to May 2004.

Mr. Bonzani was hired as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in April 2012. He was promoted to Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in February 2019 and now serves as Executive Vice President and General Counsel as of February 2021. Prior to joining IPG, Mr. Bonzani worked at IBM for 18 years, holding a number of positions in the legal department, most recently as Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Secretary from July 2008 to March 2012.

Mr. Carroll was named Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in April 2006. In 2017, Mr. Carroll assumed additional responsibilities as Chief Financial Officer for DXTRA. Mr. Carroll served as Senior Vice President and Controller of McCann Worldgroup from November 2005 to March 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Carroll served in various Chief Accounting Officer and Controller roles, as well as a Financial Vice President at Lucent Technologies, Inc. and began his professional career at PricewaterhouseCoopers from October 1991 to September 2000.

10
Item 1A.Risk Factors