Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following section is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information, including our financial statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this Annual Report.

This section discusses 2021 and 2020 significant items affecting our consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity and provides a year-to-year comparison between 2021 and 2020. Discussions of 2019 significant items and year-to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019 have been excluded in this Form 10-K and can be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2020.

Overview

Organizational

Trane Technologies, plc, is a global climate innovator. We bring sustainable and efficient solutions to buildings, homes and transportation through our strategic brands, Trane® and Thermo King®, and our environmentally responsible portfolio of products, services and connected intelligent controls. 

2030 Sustainability Commitments

Our commitment to sustainability extends to the environmental and social impacts of our people, operations, products and services. Our 2030 Sustainability Commitments have been verified by the SBTi and include our pledge to reduce customer greenhouse gas emissions by one gigaton (one billion metric tons). We are also ‘Leading by Example’ as we make progress toward carbon-neutral operations and zero waste-to-landfill across our global footprint and net positive water use in water-stressed locations. Our ‘Opportunity for All’ commitment focuses on gender parity in leadership, workforce diversity reflective of our communities, and a citizenship strategy that helps underserved communities through enhanced learning environments and pathways to green and Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) careers.

Separation of Industrial Segment Business

On the Distribution Date, we completed the Transaction with Gardner Denver, which changed its name to Ingersoll Rand after the Transaction, whereby we distributed Ingersoll-Rand U.S. HoldCo, Inc., which contained Ingersoll Rand Industrial, through the Distribution to our shareholders of record as of February 24, 2020. Ingersoll Rand Industrial then merged into a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ingersoll Rand. Upon close of the Transaction, our existing shareholders received 50.1% of the shares of Ingersoll Rand common stock on a fully-diluted basis and Gardner Denver stockholders retained 49.9% of the shares of Ingersoll Rand on a fully diluted basis. As a result, our shareholders received .8824 shares of Ingersoll Rand common stock with respect to each share owned as of February 24, 2020. In connection with the Transaction, we received a special cash payment of $1.9 billion. 

During the year ended December 31, 2021, we paid Ingersoll Rand $49.5 million to settle certain items related to the Transaction. This payment was related to working capital, cash and indebtedness amounts as of the Distribution Date, as well as funding levels related to pension plans, non-qualified deferred compensation plans and retiree health benefits. We recorded the settlement as a reduction to Retained earnings during the first quarter of 2021. 

After the Distribution Date, we do not beneficially own any Ingersoll Rand Industrial shares of common stock and no longer consolidate Ingersoll Rand Industrial in our financial statements. The historical results of Ingersoll Rand Industrial are presented as a discontinued operation in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

28
Significant Events

COVID-19 Global Pandemic

In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a global pandemic and recommended containment and mitigation measures worldwide. During the first half of 2020, the COVID-19 global pandemic adversely impacted our business globally including, but not limited to, lower end customer demand, certain supply chain delays, temporary facility closures and limitations of our workforce to essential crews only. In response, we proactively initiated cost cutting actions and actively managed our supply chain in an effort to mitigate the impact of the global pandemic on our business. Despite the challenges set forth by the COVID-19 global pandemic, we continued to sell, install and service our products, invest in our businesses, develop and launch new products and deliver innovative customer solutions for electrification of heating, cooling and transport, enhanced indoor air quality, and precise temperature control along the full vaccine cold chain. 

During the year ended December 31, 2021, we experienced significant increases in end market demand, executed price increases to cover rapidly increasing material, component and logistics costs and realized strong earnings growth as a result of strong execution across our organization. In addition, to meet our increased customer demand, we are proactively managing industry-wide supply chain and resource constraints and are working closely with our suppliers, customers and logistics providers to mitigate the impacts on our business as we continue to sell, install and service our products.

We will continue to monitor the ongoing COVID-19 global pandemic as it evolves and will assess any potential impacts to our business and financial statements as necessary.

Reorganization of Aldrich and Murray

On the Petition Date, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, Aldrich and Murray each filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to the imposition of a statutory automatic stay applicable in Chapter 11 bankruptcy cases. Only Aldrich and Murray have filed for Chapter 11 relief. Neither Aldrich's wholly-owned subsidiary, 200 Park, Murray's wholly-owned subsidiary, ClimateLabs, nor the Trane Companies are part of the Chapter 11 filings. 

The goal of these Chapter 11 filings is to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos-related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants, Aldrich and Murray through court approval of a plan of reorganization that would create a trust pursuant to section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code, establish claims resolution procedures for all current and future asbestos-related claims against Aldrich and Murray and channel such claims to the trust for resolution in accordance with those procedures.

Aldrich and its wholly-owned subsidiary 200 Park and Murray and its wholly-owned subsidiary ClimateLabs were deconsolidated as of the Petition Date and their respective assets and liabilities were derecognized from our Consolidated Financial Statements. Amounts derecognized in 2020 primarily related to the legacy asbestos-related liabilities and asbestos-related insurance recoveries and $41.7 million of cash.

As a result of the deconsolidation, we recognized an aggregate loss of $24.9 million in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings during the year ended December 31, 2020. A gain of $0.9 million related to Murray and its wholly-owned subsidiary ClimateLabs was recorded within Other income/ (expense), net and a loss of $25.8 million related to Aldrich and its wholly-owned subsidiary 200 Park was recorded within Discontinued operations, net of tax. Additionally, the deconsolidation resulted in an investing cash outflow of $41.7 million in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, of which $10.8 million was recorded within continuing operations during the year ended December 31, 2020.

During the year ended December 31, 2021, in connection with the agreement in principle reached by Aldrich and Murray with the FCR and the motion to create a $270.0 million QSF, we recorded a charge of $21.2 million to increase our Funding Agreement liability to $270.0 million. The corresponding charge was bifurcated between Other income/ (expense), net of $7.2 million relating to Murray and discontinued operations of $14.0 million relating to Aldrich.

On January 27, 2022, the Bankruptcy Court granted the request to fund the QSF, which is expected to be funded in the first quarter of 2022 shortly after the Bankruptcy Court enters an order reflecting such approval and such order becomes final and non-appealable. Therefore, as we expect to fund the QSF shortly after the Bankruptcy Court enters the order reflecting its approval, we reclassified our $270.0 million Funding Agreement liability to Accrued expenses and other current liabilities at December 31, 2021. At this point in the Chapter 11 cases of Aldrich and Murray, it is not possible to predict whether the Bankruptcy Court will approve the terms of the Plan, what the extent of the asbestos liability will be or how long the Chapter 11 cases will last. The Chapter 11 cases remain pending as of February 7, 2022.

 See also the discussion in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

29
Trends and Economic Events

We are a global corporation with worldwide operations. As a global business, our operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic factors as well as political and social factors wherever we operate or do business. Our geographic diversity and the breadth of our product and services portfolios have helped mitigate the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on our consolidated operating results. 

Given our broad range of products manufactured and geographic markets served, management uses a variety of factors to predict the outlook for our company. We monitor key competitors and customers in order to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. We regularly perform detailed evaluations of the different market segments we are serving to proactively detect trends and to adapt our strategies accordingly. In addition, we believe our order rates are indicative of future revenue and thus are a key measure of anticipated performance.

Current economic conditions have shown improvement but remain mixed across our end markets. The COVID-19 global pandemic continues to impact both the global HVAC and Transport end markets as industry-wide supply chain and resource constraints exist. As vaccine distribution and administration expands, we expect market conditions to continue improving across the geographies where we serve our customers.

We believe we have a solid foundation of global brands that are highly differentiated in all of our major product lines. Our geographic and product diversity coupled with our large installed product base provides growth opportunities within our service and corresponding parts and replacement revenue streams. In addition, we are investing substantial resources to innovate and develop new products and services which we expect will drive our future growth.

30
Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2020 - Consolidated Results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Revenues

Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased by 13.5%, or $1,681.7 million, compared with the same period of 2020. The components of the period change were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in Net revenues was primarily driven by increased end customer demand as a result of improved economic conditions as it relates to the COVID-19 global pandemic compared to the full year of 2020, coupled with pricing increases within all of our segments to offset significant material and freight inflation, and a favorable impact from foreign currency translation. Also, during the fourth quarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021, we completed three channel acquisitions, two were completed in the Americas segment and the third was completed within the EMEA segment, further driving an increase in Net revenues as compared to the prior year. Refer to “Results by Segment” below for a discussion of Net revenues by segment.

Gross Profit Margin

Gross profit margin for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased 110 basis points to 31.6% compared to 30.5% for the same period of 2020 primarily due to price realization and productivity benefits, partially offset by increased direct material, freight and other inflation.

Selling and Administrative Expenses

Selling and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased by 7.7%, or $175.7 million, compared with the same period of 2020. The increase in Selling and administrative expenses was primarily driven by higher compensation and employee benefits due to headcount growth, higher incentive compensation and lower cost in the prior year due to delays in merit increases and employee furloughs in certain regions, partially offset by lower spending on restructuring and transformation initiatives. However, Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021 decreased 90 basis points from 18.2% to 17.3% primarily due to higher revenues year-over-year. 

Interest Expense

Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 decreased by 6.0% or $15.0 million compared with the same period of 2020 primarily due to the repayments of $125.0 million of 9.000% Debentures in August 2021, $300.0 million of 2.900% Senior notes in February 2021 and 2020 interest costs related to the $300.0 million of 2.625% Senior notes which were repaid in April 2020.

31
Other Income/(Expense), Net

The components of Other income/(expense), net, for the years ended December 31 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other income /(expense), net includes the results from activities other than normal business operations such as interest income and foreign currency gains and losses on transactions that are denominated in a currency other than an entity’s functional currency. In addition, we include the components of net periodic benefit credit/(cost) for pension and post retirement obligations other than the service cost component. During the year ended December 31, 2021, other activity, net primarily includes a gain of $12.8 million related to the release of a pension indemnification liability, partially offset by a charge of $7.2 million to increase our Funding Agreement liability from asbestos-related activities of Murray. Other activity, net for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily includes a $17.4 million adjustment to correct an overstatement of a legacy legal liability that originated in prior years and a gain of $0.9 million related to the deconsolidation of Murray and its wholly-owned subsidiary ClimateLabs within other activity, net. 

Provision for Income Taxes

The 2021 effective tax rate was 18.6% which was lower than the U.S. Statutory rate of 21% due to a $21.4 million reduction in valuation allowances on deferred tax assets primarily related to foreign tax credits as a result of an increase in current year foreign source income, excess tax benefits from employee share-based payments, and earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions, which in aggregate have a lower effective tax rate. These amounts were partially offset by the recognition of a net $11.6 million tax expense related to a prepayment of an intercompany obligation, U.S. state and local taxes and certain non-deductible employee expenses. Revenues from non-U.S. jurisdictions accounted for approximately 29% of our total 2021 revenues, such that a material portion of our pretax income was earned and taxed outside the U.S. at rates ranging from 0% to 38%. When comparing the results of multiple reporting periods, among other factors, the mix of earnings between U.S. and foreign jurisdictions can cause variability in our overall effective tax rate.

The 2020 effective tax rate was 23.0% which was higher than the U.S. Statutory rate of 21% due to a $36.5 million non-cash charge related to the establishment of valuation allowances on net deferred tax assets, primarily net operating losses in certain tax jurisdictions and the write-off of a carryforward tax attribute as a result of the completion of the Transaction, U.S. state and local taxes and certain non-deductible employee expenses. These amounts were partially offset by excess tax benefits from employee share-based payments, a $14.0 million benefit primarily related to a reduction in valuation allowances on deferred taxes related to net operating losses as a result of a planned restructuring in a non-U.S. tax jurisdiction and foreign tax credits as a result of revised projections of future foreign source income and earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions, which in aggregate have a lower effective tax rate. The impact of the changes in the valuation allowances and the write-off of the carryforward tax attribute increased the effective tax rate by 1.7%. Revenues from non-U.S. jurisdictions accounted for approximately 28% of our total 2020 revenues, such that a material portion of our pretax income was earned and taxed outside the U.S. at rates ranging from 0% to 38%. When comparing the results of multiple reporting periods, among other factors, the mix of earnings between U.S. and foreign jurisdictions can cause variability in our overall effective tax rate.

32
Discontinued Operations

The components of Discontinued operations, net of tax for the years ended December 31 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Discontinued operations are retained obligations from previously sold businesses, including amounts related to Ingersoll Rand Industrial as part of the completion of the Transaction and asbestos-related activities of Aldrich. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded a charge of $14.0 million to increase our Funding Agreement liability from asbestos-related activities of Aldrich as well as pension and post retirement obligations and environmental costs related to our formerly owned businesses. The year ended December 31, 2020 includes pre-tax Ingersoll Rand Industrial separation costs primarily related to legal, consulting and advisory fees of $114.2 million and a loss of $25.8 million related to the deconsolidation of Aldrich and its wholly-owned subsidiary 200 Park. 

The components of Discontinued operations, net of tax for the years ended December 31 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2020 - Segment Results

We operate under three regional operating segments designed to create deep customer focus and relevance in markets around the world.

•Our Americas segment innovates for customers in North America and Latin America. The Americas segment encompasses commercial heating and cooling systems, building controls, and energy services and solutions; residential heating and cooling; and transport refrigeration systems and solutions.

•Our EMEA segment innovates for customers in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region. The EMEA segment encompasses heating and cooling systems, services and solutions for commercial buildings, and transport refrigeration systems and solutions. 

•Our Asia Pacific segment innovates for customers throughout the Asia Pacific region. The Asia Pacific segment encompasses heating and cooling systems, services and solutions for commercial buildings and transport refrigeration systems and solutions.

Management measures operating performance based on net earnings excluding interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring, unallocated corporate expenses and discontinued operations (Segment Adjusted EBITDA). Segment Adjusted EBITDA is not defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered a substitute for net earnings or other results reported in accordance with GAAP. We believe Segment Adjusted EBITDA provides the most relevant measure of profitability as well as earnings power and the ability to generate cash. This measure is a useful financial metric to assess our operating performance from period to period by excluding certain items that we believe are not representative of our core business and we use this measure for business planning purposes. Segment Adjusted EBITDA also provides a useful tool for assessing the comparability between periods and our ability to generate cash from operations sufficient to pay taxes, to service debt and to undertake capital expenditures because it eliminates non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization expense. 

33
The following discussion compares our results for each of our three reportable segments for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Americas

Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased by 13.1% or $1,271.2 million, compared with the same period of 2020. The components of the period change were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in Net revenues was primarily driven by increased end customer demand in all of our businesses as a result of improved economic conditions as it relates to the COVID-19 global pandemic compared to the full year of 2020, favorable pricing to offset significant material and freight inflation and the completion of two channel acquisitions during the fourth quarter of 2020. 

Segment Adjusted EBITDA margin for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased by 100 basis points to 18.3% compared to 17.3% for the same period of 2020 primarily due to price realization, productivity benefits and higher volumes, which outpaced direct material, freight and other costs driven by inflation and inefficiencies from strained supply chains.

EMEA

Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased by 18.0% or $296.8 million, compared with the same period of 2020. The components of the period change were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

34
The increase in Net revenues was primarily driven by increased end customer demand as a result of improved economic conditions as it relates to the COVID-19 global pandemic compared to the full year of 2020, a favorable impact from foreign currency translation and favorable pricing to offset significant material and freight inflation. Also, during the first quarter of 2021, we completed a channel acquisition, which is managed in our EMEA segment, and includes sales formerly reported under our Asia Pacific segment, further driving an increase in Net revenues as compared to the prior year. 

Segment Adjusted EBITDA margin for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased by 240 basis points to 18.5% compared to 16.1% for the same period of 2020 primarily due to productivity benefits, higher volumes, favorable pricing and favorable product mix, which outpaced direct material, freight and other costs driven by inflation and inefficiencies from strained supply chains.

Asia Pacific

Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased by 10.1% or $113.7 million, compared with the same period of 2020. The components of the period change were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in Net revenues was primarily driven by increased end customer demand as a result of improved economic conditions as it relates to the COVID-19 global pandemic compared to the full year of 2020, a favorable impact from foreign currency translation and favorable pricing to offset significant material and freight inflation, partially offset by the transfer of sales to the EMEA segment related to the channel acquisition.

Segment Adjusted EBITDA margin for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased by 170 basis points to 18.5% compared to 16.8% for the same period of 2020. The increase was primarily driven by productivity benefits, favorable pricing and higher volumes as a result of increased customer demand from improved economic conditions driven by the COVID-19 global pandemic, partially offset by increased direct material, freight and other costs driven by inflation and inefficiencies from strained supply chains, and unfavorable product mix.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing and financing activities. In doing so, we review and analyze our current cash on hand, the number of days our sales are outstanding, inventory turns, capital expenditure commitments and income tax payments. Our cash requirements primarily consist of the following:

•Funding of working capital

•Debt service requirements

•Funding of capital expenditures

•Dividend payments

•Funding of acquisitions, joint ventures and equity investments

•Share repurchases

Our primary sources of liquidity include cash balances on hand, cash flows from operations, proceeds from debt offerings, commercial paper, and borrowing availability under our existing credit facilities. We earn a significant amount of our operating income in jurisdictions where it is deemed to be permanently reinvested. Our most prominent jurisdiction of operation is the U.S. We expect existing cash and cash equivalents available to the U.S. operations, the cash generated by our U.S. operations, our committed credit lines as well as our expected ability to access the capital and debt markets will be sufficient to fund our U.S. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect existing non-U.S. cash and cash equivalents and the cash generated by our non-U.S. operations will be sufficient to fund our non-U.S. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. The maximum aggregate amount of unsecured commercial paper notes available to be issued, on a private placement basis, under the commercial paper program is $2.0 billion, of which we had no outstanding balance as of December 31, 2021.

35
As of December 31, 2021, we had $2,159.2 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand, of which $1,461.8 million was held by non-U.S. subsidiaries. Cash and cash equivalents held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries are generally available for use in our U.S. operations via intercompany loans, equity infusions or via distributions from direct or indirectly owned non-U.S. subsidiaries for which we do not assert permanent reinvestment. As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in 2017, additional repatriation opportunities to access cash and cash equivalents held by non-U.S. subsidiaries have been created. In general, repatriation of cash to the U.S. can be completed with no significant incremental U.S. tax. However, to the extent that we repatriate funds from non-U.S. subsidiaries for which we assert permanent reinvestment to fund our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue and pay applicable non-U.S. taxes. As of December 31, 2021, we currently have no plans to repatriate funds from subsidiaries for which we assert permanent reinvestment.

Share repurchases are made from time to time in accordance with management's balanced capital allocation strategy, subject to market conditions and regulatory requirements. In February 2021, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of our ordinary shares under the 2021 Authorization upon completion of the prior share repurchase program which authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our ordinary shares (2018 Authorization). During the year ended December 31, 2021, we repurchased and canceled $1.1 billion of our ordinary shares thus completing the 2018 Authorization and initiated repurchases under the 2021 Authorization of $600.2 million of our ordinary shares leaving approximately $1.4 billion remaining under the 2021 Authorization. Additionally, through January 31, 2022, we repurchased approximately $350 million of our ordinary shares under the 2021 Authorization. In February 2022, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $3.0 billion of our ordinary shares under a new share repurchase program (2022 Authorization) upon completion of the 2021 Authorization.

We expect to pay a competitive and growing dividend. In February 2021, we announced an 11% increase in our quarterly share dividend from $0.53 to $0.59 per ordinary share, or $2.36 per share annualized. All four 2021 quarterly dividends were paid during the year ended December 31, 2021. In February 2022, our Board of Directors declared an increase in our quarterly share dividend by 14%, from $0.59 to $0.67 per ordinary share, or $2.36 to $2.68 per share annualized starting in the first quarter of 2022.

We continue to actively manage and strengthen our business portfolio to meet the current and future needs of our customers. We achieve this partly through engaging in research and development and sustaining activities and partly through acquisitions. Sustaining activities include costs incurred to reduce production costs, improve existing products, create custom solutions for customers and provide support to our manufacturing facilities. Our research and development and sustaining costs account for approximately two percent of annual Net revenues. Each year, we make investments in new product development and new technology innovation as they are key factors in achieving our strategic objectives as a leader in the climate sector. In addition, we make investments in renewable energy production. For example, we invested in on-site solar energy generation at three of our facilities - Trenton, NJ, Columbia, SC, and Taicang, China - to benefit from operational and cost consistency, which is especially important in parts of the world with uncertain electricity prices and availability. During the fourth quarter of 2021, we completed installation of a photovoltaic (PV) system at our Zhongshan, China facility, which will begin generating solar electricity in 2022. These projects did not result in material expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2021. We continue to look for similar improvement opportunities including, but not limited to, increasing energy efficiency, developing products that allow for use of lower global warming potential refrigerants, reducing material content in products, and designing products for circularity. All NPD programs must complete a Design for Sustainability module within our NPD process to ensure that every program has a positive impact on sustainability. We also focus on partnering with our suppliers and technology providers to align their investment decisions with our technical requirements.

In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and equity investments. Since 2019, we have acquired several businesses, entered into joint ventures and invested in companies that complement existing products and services further enhancing our product portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we deployed capital of approximately $340 million attributable to acquisitions and equity investments. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we completed a Reverse Morris Trust transaction with Ingersoll Rand whereby we separated Ingersoll Rand Industrial from our business portfolio, transforming the Company into a global climate innovator. We recognized separation-related costs of $114.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. These expenditures were incurred in order to facilitate the transaction and are included within Discontinued operations, net of tax.

36
We incur ongoing costs associated with restructuring initiatives intended to result in improved operating performance, profitability and working capital levels. Actions associated with these initiatives may include workforce reductions, improving manufacturing productivity, realignment of management structures and rationalizing certain assets. Post separation, we committed to reduce costs by $190 million through 2021 and an additional $110 million by 2023 for a total of $300 million in total annual savings under our transformation initiatives. In order to achieve these cost savings, we anticipate to incur costs up to $150 million through 2022. We currently have incurred approximately $126 million cumulatively through December 31, 2021. We believe that our existing cash flow, committed credit lines and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to fund share repurchases, dividends, research and development, sustaining activities, business portfolio changes and ongoing restructuring actions.

Certain of our subsidiaries entered into Funding Agreements with Aldrich and Murray pursuant to which those subsidiaries are obligated, among other things, to pay the costs and expenses of Aldrich and Murray during the pendency of the Chapter 11 cases to the extent distributions from their respective subsidiaries are insufficient to do so and to provide an amount for the funding for a trust established pursuant to section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code, to the extent that the other assets of Aldrich and Murray are insufficient to provide the requisite trust funding. During the third quarter of 2021, Aldrich and Murray filed a motion with the Bankruptcy Court to create a $270 million QSF. The funds held in the QSF would be available to provide funding for the Section 524(g) Trust upon effectiveness of the Plan. On January 27, 2022, the Bankruptcy Court granted the request to fund the QSF. The QSF is expected to be funded in the first quarter of 2022 shortly after the Bankruptcy Court enters an order reflecting such approval and such order becomes final and non-appealable. At this point in the Chapter 11 cases of Aldrich and Murray, it is not possible to predict whether the Bankruptcy Court will approve the terms of the Plan, what the extent of the asbestos liability will be or how long the Chapter 11 cases will last. 

As the COVID-19 global pandemic impacts both the broader economy and our operations, we will continue to assess our liquidity needs and our ability to access capital markets. A continued worldwide disruption could materially affect economies and financial markets worldwide, resulting in an economic downturn that could affect demand for our products, our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms and otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors for more information.

Liquidity

The following table contains several key measures of our financial condition and liquidity at the periods ended December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The $300.0 million of 2.900% Senior notes were repaid in February 2021. The $125.0 million of 9.000% Debentures were repaid in August 2021. 

Debt and Credit Facilities

Our short-term obligations primarily consist of debentures with put features and current maturities of long-term debt. We have outstanding $342.9 million of fixed rate debentures that contain a put feature that the holders may exercise on each anniversary of the issuance date. If exercised, we are obligated to repay in whole or in part, at the holder’s option, the outstanding principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest) of the debentures held by the holder. We also maintain a commercial paper program which is used for general corporate purposes. Under the program, the maximum aggregate amount of unsecured commercial paper notes available to be issued, on a private placement basis, is $2.0 billion as of December 31, 2021. We had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the terms of our short-term obligations.

Our long-term obligations primarily consist of long-term debt with final maturity dates ranging between 2023 and 2049. In addition, we maintain two $1.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facilities, one of which matures in April 2023 and the other in June 2026. The facilities provide support for our commercial paper program and can be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Total commitments of $2.0 billion were unused at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and further below in Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information for additional information regarding the terms of our long-term obligations and their related guarantees.

37
Cash Flows

The following table reflects the major categories of cash flows for the years ended December 31, respectively. For additional details, please see the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by continuing operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $1,594.4 million, of which net income provided $1,837.5 million after adjusting for non-cash transactions. Net cash provided by continuing operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $1,766.2 million, of which net income provided $1,422.5 million after adjusting for non-cash transactions. The year-over-year decrease in net cash provided by continuing operating activities was primarily due to higher working capital balances in the current year, partially offset by higher net earnings.

Investing Activities

Cash flows from investing activities represents inflows and outflows regarding the purchase and sale of assets. Primary activities associated with these items include capital expenditures, proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment, acquisitions, investments in joint ventures and divestitures. During the year ended December 31, 2021, net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $545.7 million. The primary drivers of the usage was attributable to the acquisition of businesses, which totaled $269.2 million, net of cash acquired, $223.0 million of capital expenditures and other investing activities of $68.6 million primarily related to investment in several companies that complement existing products and services further enhancing our product portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2020, net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $338.5 million. The primary drivers of the usage was attributable to the acquisition of businesses, which totaled $182.8 million, net of cash acquired and $146.2 million of capital expenditures. In addition, as a result of the deconsolidation of Murray and its wholly-owned subsidiary ClimateLabs under the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing, the assets and liabilities of these entities were derecognized, which resulted in a cash outflow of $10.8 million.

Financing Activities

Cash flows from financing activities represent inflows and outflows that account for external activities affecting equity and debt. Primary activities associated with these actions include paying dividends to shareholders, repurchasing our own shares, issuing our stock and debt transactions. During the year ended December 31, 2021, net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $2,127.6 million. The primary drivers of the outflow related to the the repurchase of $1,100.3 million in ordinary shares, dividends paid to ordinary shareholders of $561.1 million and the repayment of long-term debt of $432.5 million. During the year ended December 31, 2020, net cash provided by financing activities from continuing operations was $884.3 million. The primary driver of the inflow related to the receipt of a special cash payment of $1,900.0 million pursuant to the completion of the Transaction. This amount was partially offset by dividends paid to ordinary shareholders of $507.3 million, the repayment of long-term debt of $307.5 million and the repurchase of $250.0 million in ordinary shares.

38
Free Cash Flow

Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure and defined as Net cash provided by (used in) continuing operating activities, less capital expenditures, plus cash payments for restructuring and transformation costs. This measure is useful to management and investors because it is consistent with management's assessment of our operating cash flow performance. The most comparable GAAP measure to free cash flow is Net cash provided by (used in) continuing operating activities. Free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered a substitute for Net cash provided by (used in) continuing operating activities in accordance with GAAP.

A reconciliation of Net cash provided by (used in) continuing operating activities to free cash flow the years ended December 31 is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Represents a non-GAAP measure.

Pension Plans

Our investment objective in managing defined benefit plan assets is to ensure that all present and future benefit obligations are met as they come due. We seek to achieve this goal while trying to mitigate volatility in plan funded status, contribution and expense by better matching the characteristics of the plan assets to that of the plan liabilities. Our approach to asset allocation is to increase fixed income assets as the plan's funded status improves. We monitor plan funded status and asset allocation regularly in addition to investment manager performance. In addition, we monitor the impact of market conditions on our defined benefit plans on a regular basis. None of our defined benefit pension plans have experienced a significant impact on their liquidity due to market volatility. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding pensions.

Capital Resources

Based on historical performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents balance, the cash generated from our operations, our committed credit lines and our expected ability to access capital markets will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases, upcoming debt maturities, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for the foreseeable future.

Capital expenditures were $223.0 million, $146.2 million and $205.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our investments continue to improve manufacturing productivity, reduce costs, provide environmental enhancements, upgrade information technology infrastructure and security and advanced technologies for existing facilities. The capital expenditure program for 2022 is estimated to be approximately two percent of revenues, including amounts approved in prior periods. Many of these projects are subject to review and cancellation at our option without incurring substantial charges.

For financial market risk impacting the Company, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk."

Capitalization

In addition to cash on hand and operating cash flow, we maintain significant credit availability under our Commercial Paper Program. Our ability to borrow at a cost-effective rate under the Commercial Paper Program is contingent upon maintaining an investment-grade credit rating. As of December 31, 2021, our credit ratings were as follows, remaining unchanged from 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The credit ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

Our public debt does not contain financial covenants and our revolving credit lines have a debt-to-total capital covenant of 65%. As of December 31, 2021, our debt-to-total capital ratio was significantly beneath this limit.

39
Contractual Obligations

Our contractual cash obligations include required payments of long-term debt principal and interest, purchase obligations and expected obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans. In addition, we have required payments of operating leases, income taxes and expected obligations under the Funding agreement, environmental and product liability matters. For additional information regarding leases, income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits, and contingent liabilities, see Note 10, Note 17 and Note 21, respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations.

Debt

At December 31, 2021, we had outstanding aggregate long-term debt principal payments of $4,872.6 million, with $350.4 million payable within 12 months. The amount payable within 12 months includes $342.9 million of debt redeemable at the option of the holder. The scheduled maturities of these bonds range between 2027 and 2028. Future interest payments on long-term debt total $2,402.4 million, with $215.2 million payable within 12 months. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt.

Purchase Obligations

Purchase obligations include commitments under legally enforceable contracts or purchase orders. At December 31, 2021, we had purchase obligations of $1,225.0 million, which are primarily payable within 12 months.

Pensions

It is our objective to contribute to the pension plans to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. We currently expect that we will contribute approximately $82 million to our enterprise plans worldwide in 2022. The timing and amounts of future contributions are dependent upon the funding status of the plan, which is expected to vary as a result of changes in interest rates, returns on underlying assets, and other factors. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding pensions.

Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions

We fund postretirement benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations. Benefit payments, which are net of expected plan participant contributions and Medicare Part D subsidy, are expected to be approximately $34 million in 2022. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding postretirement benefits other than pensions.

40
Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information

Trane Technologies plc (Plc or Parent Company) and certain of its 100% directly or indirectly owned subsidiaries provide guarantees of public debt issued by other 100% directly or indirectly owned subsidiaries of Plc. The following table shows our guarantor relationships as of December 31, 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) On April 30, 2021, Trane Technologies Luxembourg Finance S.A. (TT Lux) merged into TTFL, an Irish private limited company, and TTFL became the successor issuer of certain notes and assumed the guarantees and other obligations previously held by TT Lux. 

Each subsidiary debt issuer and guarantor is owned 100% directly or indirectly by the Parent Company. Each guarantee is full and unconditional, and provided on a joint and several basis. There are no significant restrictions of the Parent Company, or any guarantor, to obtain funds from its subsidiaries, such as provisions in debt agreements that prohibit dividend payments, loans or advances to the parent by a subsidiary. The following tables present summarized financial information for the Parent Company and subsidiary debt issuers and guarantors on a combined basis (together, "obligor group") after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances based on the Company’s legal entity ownerships and guarantees outstanding at December 31, 2021. Our obligor groups as of December 31, 2021 were as follows: obligor group 1 consists of Plc, TT Holdings, TT International, TT Global, TTFL, TTC HoldCo and TTC; obligor group 2 consists of Plc, TTFL and TTC.

Summarized Statements of Earnings

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

41
Summarized Balance Sheet

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Critical Accounting Estimates

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with those accounting principles requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. These estimates and assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may differ from these estimates. If updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known.

The following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical.

•Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets – We have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet related to acquisitions. These assets are tested and reviewed annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate that the fair value of an asset is more likely than not less than the carrying amount of the asset. In addition, an interim impairment test is completed upon a triggering event or when there is a reorganization of reporting structure or disposal of all or a portion of a reporting unit. 

The determination of estimated fair value requires us to make assumptions about estimated cash flows, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates. We developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. The estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows.

Annual Goodwill Impairment Test

Impairment of goodwill is assessed at the reporting unit level and begins with a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the goodwill impairment test. For those reporting units that bypass or fail the qualitative assessment, the test compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. To the extent that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss would be recognized for the amount by which the reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill in that reporting unit.

42
As quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair value is determined using three valuation techniques: a discounted cash flow model (an income approach), a market-adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues (a market approach), and a similar transactions method (also a market approach). The discounted cash flow approach relies on our estimates of future cash flows and explicitly addresses factors such as timing, growth and margins, with due consideration given to forecasting risk. The multiple of earnings and revenues approach reflects the market's expectations for future growth and risk, with adjustments to account for differences between the guideline publicly traded companies and the subject reporting units. The similar transactions method considers prices paid in transactions that have recently occurred in our industry or in related industries. These valuation techniques are weighted 50%, 40% and 10%, respectively.

Other Indefinite-lived intangible assets

Impairment of other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is first assessed using a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. This assessment is used as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset. For those indefinite-lived assets where it is required, a fair value is determined on a relief from royalty methodology (income approach) which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. The present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e., royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. Any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value would be recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. 

•Business combinations - Acquisitions that meet the definition of a business combination are recorded using the acquisition method of accounting. We include the operating results of acquired entities from their respective dates of acquisition. We recognize and measure the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, including contingent consideration relating to potential earnout provisions. and any non-controlling interest as of the acquisition date fair value. The valuation of intangible assets is determined using an income approach methodology. We use assumptions to value the intangible assets including projected future revenues, customer attrition rates, royalty rates, tax rates and discount rates. The excess, if any, of total consideration transferred in a business combination over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest is recognized as goodwill. Costs incurred as a result of a business combination other than costs related to the issuance of debt or equity securities are recorded in the period the costs are incurred.

Contingent consideration

We assess any contingent consideration included in the consideration paid of a business combination. The value recorded is based on estimates of future financial projections on revenue under various potential scenarios, in which a Monte Carlo simulation model runs many iterations based on comparable companies' revenue growth rates and their implied revenue volatilities. These cash flow projections are discounted with a risk adjusted rate. Each quarter until such contingent amounts are earned, the fair value of the liability is remeasured at each reporting period and adjusted as a component of operating expenses based on changes to the underlying assumptions. The estimates used to determine the fair value of the contingent consideration liability are subject to significant judgment, specifically revenue growth rates, implied revenue volatilities and discount rates. 

•Asbestos matters – Prior to the Petition Date, certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies were named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. We recorded a liability for our actual and anticipated future claims as well as an asset for anticipated insurance settlements. We performed a detailed analysis and projected an estimated range of the total liability for pending and unasserted future asbestos-related claims. We recorded the liability at the low end of the range as we believed that no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount. Our key assumptions underlying the estimated asbestos-related liabilities included the number of people occupationally exposed and likely to develop asbestos-related diseases such as mesothelioma and lung cancer, the number of people likely to file an asbestos-related personal injury claim against us, the average settlement and resolution of each claim and the percentage of claims resolved with no payment. Asbestos-related defense costs were excluded from the asbestos claims liability and were recorded separately as services were incurred. None of our existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. We recorded certain income and expenses associated with our asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries within Discontinued operations, net of tax, as they related to previously divested businesses, except for amounts associated with asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries of Murray and its predecessors, which were recorded within continuing operations. 

43
•Revenue recognition – Revenue is recognized when control of a good or service promised in a contract (i.e., performance obligation) is transferred to a customer. Control is obtained when a customer has the ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from that good or service. A majority of our revenues are recognized at a point-in-time as control is transferred at a distinct point in time per the terms of a contract. However, a portion of our revenues are recognized over time as the customer simultaneously receives control as we perform work under a contract. For these arrangements, the cost-to-cost input method is used as it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs.

The transaction price allocated to performance obligations reflects our expectations about the consideration we will be entitled to receive from a customer. To determine the transaction price, variable and noncash consideration are assessed as well as whether a significant financing component exists. We include variable consideration in the estimated transaction price when it is probable that significant reversal of revenue recognized would not occur when the uncertainty associated with variable consideration is subsequently resolved. We consider historical data in determining our best estimates of variable consideration, and the related accruals are recorded using the expected value method.

We enter into sales arrangements that contain multiple goods and services. For these arrangements, each good or service is evaluated to determine whether it represents a distinct performance obligation and whether the sales price for each obligation is representative of standalone selling price. If available, we utilize observable prices for goods or services sold separately to similar customers in similar circumstances to evaluate relative standalone selling price. List prices are used if they are determined to be representative of standalone selling prices. Where necessary, we ensure that the total transaction price is then allocated to the distinct performance obligations based on the determination of their relative standalone selling price at the inception of the arrangement.

We recognize revenue for delivered goods or services when the delivered good or service is distinct, control of the good or service has transferred to the customer, and only customary refund or return rights related to the goods or services exist. For extended warranties and long-term service agreements, revenue for these distinct performance obligations are recognized over time on a straight-line basis over the respective contract term. 

•Income taxes – Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. We recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in our judgment to be more likely than not. We regularly review the recoverability of our deferred tax assets considering our historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of our tax planning strategies. Where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance with respect to a future tax benefit.

The provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income, and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. In addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. We believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters. We will adjust our estimate if significant events so dictate. To the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes in the period that the matter is finally resolved.

•Employee benefit plans – We provide a range of benefits to eligible employees and retirees, including pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefits. Determining the cost associated with such benefits is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, mortality, turnover rates and healthcare cost trend rates. Actuarial valuations are performed to determine expense in accordance with GAAP. Actual results may differ from the actuarial assumptions and are generally accumulated and amortized into earnings over future periods. We review our actuarial assumptions at each measurement date and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends, if appropriate. The discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are determined as of each measurement date. We believe that the assumptions utilized in recording our obligations under our plans are reasonable based on input from our actuaries, outside investment advisors and information as to assumptions used by plan sponsors.

44
Changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension cost or postretirement benefit cost. Estimated sensitivities to the expected 2022 net periodic pension cost of a 0.25% rate decline in the two basic assumptions are as follows: the decline in the discount rate would increase expense by approximately $4.2 million and the decline in the estimated return on assets would increase expense by approximately $7.2 million. A 0.25% rate decrease in the discount rate for postretirement benefits would increase expected 2022 net periodic postretirement benefit cost by $0.5 million.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK