Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading, speculation or other similar purposes that would expose the Company to market risk. In the normal course of business, our results of operations are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates.

 Interest Rate Risk

Please see the Note 9- Borrowings in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on Page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of the Revolving Credit Facility, Term Loan Facilities and Note Purchase Agreement. 

Our Revolving Credit Facility, Term Loan Facilities and certain other debt obligations are subject to variable rate interest which could be adversely affected by an increase in interest rates. As of September 30, 2022, we had an aggregate of $2.9 billion in outstanding borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan Facilities. Interest on amounts borrowed under these agreements is subject to adjustment based on the Company’s Consolidated Leverage Ratio (as defined in the credit agreements governing the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facilities). Depending on the Company’s Consolidated Leverage Ratio, borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facilities bear interest at a Eurocurrency rate plus a margin of between 0.875% and 1.625% or a base rate plus a margin of between 0% and 0.625%. Additionally, if our consolidated leverage ratio exceeds a certain amount, the interest on the Senior Notes may increase by 75 basis points. However, as discussed in Note 18- Commitments and Contingencies and Derivative Financial Instruments, we have entered into swap agreements with an aggregate notional value of $876.2 million to convert the variable rate interest-based liabilities associated with a corresponding amount of our debt into fixed interest rate liabilities, leaving $2.0 billion in principal amount subject to variable interest rate risk. Additionally, during fiscal 2022, we entered into two treasury lock arrangements with an aggregate notional value of $500.0 million as of September 30, 2022, which is discussed in further detail in Note 18- Commitments and Contingencies and Derivative Financial Instruments.

For the year ended September 30, 2022, our weighted average floating rate borrowings that are subject to floating rate exposure were approximately $2.3 billion. If floating interest rates had increased by 1.00%, our interest expense for the year ended September 30, 2022 would have increased by approximately $22.6 million.

 Foreign Currency Risk

In situations where our operations incur contract costs in currencies other than their functional currency, we sometimes enter into foreign exchange contracts to limit our exposure to fluctuating foreign currencies. We follow the provisions of ASC No. 815, Derivatives and Hedging in accounting for our derivative contracts. The Company has $298.2 million in notional value of exchange rate sensitive instruments at September 30, 2022. See Note 18- Commitments and Contingencies and Derivative Financial Instruments for discussion.

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA