Item 1. BUSINESS

At Jacobs, we’re challenging today to reinvent tomorrow by solving the world’s most critical problems for thriving cities, resilient environments, mission-critical outcomes, operational advancement, scientific discovery and cutting-edge 

Page 3

manufacturing, turning abstract ideas into realities that transform the world for good. Leveraging a talent force of more than 60,000, Jacobs provides a full spectrum of professional services including consulting, technical, engineering, scientific and project delivery for the government and private sector.

Our previous three-year corporate strategy launched at our Investor Day in February 2019 focused on innovation and continued transformation to build upon our position as the leading solutions provider for our clients. Setting the wheels in motion for our current path, this transformation included acquiring a 65% stake in PA Consulting Group Limited ("PA Consulting") in fiscal year 2021. Acquisitions of John Wood Group’s nuclear business, The Buffalo Group and most recently BlackLynx and StreetLight further position us as a leader in high-value government services and technology-enabled solutions.

We are now focused on broadening our leadership in sustainable, high growth sectors. As part of our strategy, our new brand promise: Challenging today. Reinventing tomorrow. signals our transition to a global technology-forward solutions company. We began trading as “J” on the New York Stock Exchange in December 2019, and in March 2021 our Global Industry Classifications Standard code changed to Research & Consulting Services. Our Focus 2023 Transformation Office is charged with driving further innovation, delivering value-creating solutions for our clients and leveraging an integrated digital and technology strategy to improve our efficiency and effectiveness, ultimately freeing up valuable time and resources for reinvestment in our people.

In March 2022, Jacobs launched a new three-year strategy that builds on our success over the past three years and takes advantage of a new lens crafted from the incredible pace of change in the world and in our markets. Our new strategy is driven by our values and reflective of our vision of becoming a company like no other. It is based on an extensive evaluation of global trends, capabilities and markets to understand the largest opportunities, projected spend and growth rates – resulting in the identification of three growth accelerators: Climate Response, Consulting & Advisory and Data Solutions. We know we have a pivotal role to play across the entire Climate Response value chain – helping to mitigate global risks and build long-term resilience to benefit people and the planet. Today our clients are facing the most disruptive period ever. Through our Consulting & Advisory capabilities, we help them conceptualize, shape and realize their future. We also harness our Data Solutions to help our clients operate in a safe environment and capitalize on their data more than ever before – empowering innovation and ingenuity to unlock better outcomes.

These growth accelerators cut across the entire business, open up significant high value growth opportunities with existing and new clients and create our focus on where we intend to deploy capital over the next several years.

Page 4

Our Core Markets

We believe our deep global domain knowledge in our core markets applied together with the latest advances in technology – are why customers large and small choose to partner with Jacobs. In fiscal year 2022, we operated in two lines of business: Critical Mission Solutions and People & Places Solutions, and a third business segment as a result of our majority investment in PA Consulting. As part of our new strategy, we also announced a new business unit that we will report under beginning in fiscal 2023, Divergent Solutions, which serves as the core foundation for developing and delivering innovative, next-generation cloud, cyber, data and digital technologies.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022, Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (the predecessor parent company) created a new holding company, Jacobs Solutions Inc., which became the new parent of Jacobs Engineering Group, Inc. Jacobs Solutions Inc. more closely aligns our public identity with a global technology-forward solutions company. As a result of the transaction, the predecessor company’s then-current stockholders automatically became stockholders of Jacobs Solutions Inc., on a one-for-one basis, with the same number of shares and same ownership percentage of the Company’s common stock that they held in the predecessor company immediately prior to the transaction.

Page 5

Challenging today. Reinventing tomorrow 

Our values continue to guide our behaviors, relationships and outcomes - allowing us to act as one company and unify us worldwide when interacting with our clients, employees, communities and shareholders. 

•We do things right. We always act with integrity – taking responsibility for our work, caring for our people and staying focused on safety and sustainability. We make investments in our clients, people and communities, so we can grow together.

•We challenge the accepted. We know that to create a better future, we must ask the difficult questions. We always stay curious and are not afraid to try new things.

•We aim higher. We do not settle – always looking beyond to raise the bar and deliver with excellence. We are committed to our clients by bringing innovative solutions that lead to profitable growth and shared success.

•We live inclusion. We put people at the heart of our business. We embrace all perspectives, collaborating to make a positive impact. Through a strong focus on inclusion, with a diverse team of visionaries, thinkers and doers, we build trust - in each other and across our company.

Page 6

We do things right

From the way we operate our business, to the sustainable solutions we co-create with clients and other organizations, we look at ways to make a positive environmental, societal and economic difference for our people, businesses, governments and communities around the world. 

PlanBeyondSM 2.0 is our approach to integrating sustainability throughout our operations and client solutions in alignment with the United Nations' ("UN") Sustainable Development Goals ("SDGs")— planning beyond today for a more sustainable future for everyone. We identified six core SDGs that are material to our business, where we can have the most influence and impact, although we strive to contribute towards all 17 of the UN's SDGs.

Sustainability at Jacobs means developing long-term business resilience and success, and positively contributing toward the global economy, society and the environment. It is not simply about avoiding harm, but about maximizing impact and stakeholder value, and striving to deliver a positive, fair and inclusive future for all in partnership with our clients. 

Leadership on Climate Response and Social Value

Jacobs has elevated Climate Response as one of three core accelerators within our fiscal year 2022 to 2024 Company Strategy – aligning positive societal impact with long-term business growth, while supporting the UN's SDG 13: Climate Action. We also established an Office of Global Climate Response and ESG, designed to deliver on our climate action commitments through innovative solutions for both our clients and stakeholders.

Our new Climate Action Plan lays out our next phase of climate mitigation and adaptation commitments, which build on the progress we have made since the release of our initial plan in 2020. Our new climate commitments include:

•Ensuring every project becomes a climate response opportunity

•Achieving Net-Zero greenhouse gas emissions across the value chain by 2040

•Maintaining carbon neutrality status in our operations and business travel and 100% low-carbon electricity for our operations

Page 7

We are the first consultancy and one of the world’s first companies with net-zero targets approved by the Science Based Targets initiative. Our carbon neutrality status is in line with the international standard PAS 2060. Detailed in our Carbon Neutrality Commitment, starting in 2020 and throughout fiscal year 2021, we achieved 100% low-carbon electricity and we became carbon neutral for our operations and business travel and continue to maintain these commitments. 

Our ESG Disclosures Report shares our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance, reported in alignment with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board framework. We have achieved industry leading ISS Prime Status for our ESG corporate rating – this is awarded to companies with an ESG performance above the sector-specific Prime threshold, which means that we fulfil ambitious absolute performance requirements. For the second consecutive year in 2021, Jacobs was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index, reinforcing our position as a sustainability leader among the top 20% of the largest 600 North American companies in the S&P Global Broad Market Index (BMI) based on long-term economic, environmental and social criteria. Our score for 2022 increased 8 points overall year-on-year, and our inclusion in any Dow Jones Index is pending completion of assessment by Standard and Poor's, anticipated to be released in December 2022. 

Supporting the UN's SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities, we are integrating social value and equity considerations and innovations into the solutions we deliver for our clients. For example, we developed a Social Value Solutions framework that helps clients create social value and contribute to a more inclusive economy. Our partnership with Simetrica (a U.K.-based organization that specializes in social value measurement and wellbeing analysis) enables us to help clients understand how they can transform local, city and regional decision-making – identifying innovative, inclusive and ethical investments that will drive social change, spread prosperity and meet the growing challenges facing communities. 

Jacobs. A world where you can

We put people at the heart of our business: we are a merit-based organization that is inclusive and diverse; we aim to continually recruit and develop the best talent.

We are building an inclusive and diverse culture to provide a solid foundation for selecting, developing and retaining the best and brightest minds at Jacobs. Our eight Jacobs Employee Networks (JENs) play a critical role in attracting new talent into our business, helping to shape our recruiting strategies, our global science, technology, engineering, arts and math (STEAM) education and engagement program, and our accessibility practices.

Conducting our Business with Integrity

Jacobs' ethics and Code of Conduct are rooted in our values and provide the standards and support to help us successfully navigate issues, make the right decisions and conduct our business with the integrity that reflects our heritage and ethical reputation. We hold our suppliers and business partners to the same standards.

Our Culture of Caring

As global challenges to our security, wellbeing and ability to operate evolve, BeyondZero® continues to drive a safer, more secure, healthier, and more resilient future for our Jacobs family. Aligning with the UN's SDG 3: Good Health & Wellbeing, we stay focused on managing Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) and security risks effectively and leveraging our Culture of Caring℠ to deliver the best outcomes for our people, the environment, our clients, our communities and our shareholders. And through our Mental Health Matters program, we empower our workforce, so they know they work in an environment where their mental health and well-being is the top priority and where everyone can "bring their best whole self to work."

Supporting our Communities

We focus on putting our values into practice. Around the world, our people craft solutions that affect the way people live; helping to improve social, environmental and economic resiliency. As part of our PlanBeyond 2.0 sustainability approach, the Collectively℠ program (our Global Giving and Volunteering program) governs and centralizes our giving strategy and budget and provides a user-friendly way for employees to donate and volunteer. In fiscal year 2022, we donated $3.2 million to 3,000+ charities across 26 countries. Our people tracked approximately 23,000 volunteer hours and completed nearly 8,000 volunteer activities.

Page 8

We challenge the accepted

To us, everything we do – whether tackling water scarcity, aging infrastructure, access to life-saving therapies or sophisticated cyberattacks – is more than a job. We work every day to make the world better for all.

Supporting UN SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure, we foster a culture of technology and innovation to support the advancement of society. For us, innovation means creating and delivering value and Beyond IfSM is our award-winning global innovation program instilling and sustaining our innovation culture. It represents our creativity and agility to challenge the accepted, with the domain expertise to push beyond our boundaries and deliver for today and into tomorrow. We act to turn ideas into reality and create outcomes that deliver value for our clients and society at large.

We aim higher 

We take on some of the world’s biggest challenges, bringing a different way of thinking to everything we do, challenging the status quo and questioning what others might accept. We craft solutions that affect the way people live. From vital environmental cleanup efforts, helping communities adapt and thrive to retrofitting vaccine facilities to protect public health, we solve for better, never losing sight of our responsibility to each other.

The table below highlights key focus areas where we combine our deep domain knowledge with advances in technology to deliver solutions to solve our customer's most complex challenges. 

BeyondExcellence℠ is our global approach to quality, performance excellence, continual improvement and recognizing those who set the new standard through our awards program. Our BeyondExcellence Awards celebrate those who raise the bar and deliver the extraordinary with excellence. With a core set of processes in place, BeyondExcellence gives us a framework to deliver value on our projects through good governance, assurance and improvement.

Page 9

We live inclusion

At Jacobs, we understand that inclusion means going beyond statements, commitments and initiatives to take tangible action that drives meaningful, measurable change both in our company and in the communities that we serve. It means creating a workplace where our differences are harnessed to bring the innovative, extraordinary solutions to life that our clients demand from us. It means creating a culture of belonging where everyone can thrive — a culture that we call TogetherBeyond℠. We also recognize that our Inclusion & Diversity (I&D) and holistic wellbeing efforts really make up the "S" in ESG — the social value and equity considerations for our people as well as the communities we serve. 

Our eight JENs promote inclusion and equality, not only within Jacobs but with our clients, potential recruits and within the communities that we serve. The JENs are employee-led and organized, partnering with leadership to shape an inclusive organization and ensure everyone feels that they belong.

Supporting the UN's SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities, our global Action Plan for Advancing Justice and Equality sets out actionable initiatives and measurable objectives to address racial inequalities both within Jacobs and in communities across the world. The plan is about achieving true equality for all our employees current and future, with a focus on empowering our Black employees to advance and achieve at Jacobs. It's about doing our part as a global leader to educate and change the culture in our communities — reaching future talent early to highlight and celebrate their potential. 

Page 10

We maintain agile and disciplined capital deployment 

M&A and Divestitures 

Consistent with our profitable growth strategy, Jacobs pursues acquisitions, divestitures, strategic investments and other transactions to maximize long-term value by continuing to reshape its portfolio to higher value solutions and accelerating its profitable growth strategy. The Company has made the following acquisitions, strategic investments and divestitures:

•On February 4, 2022, Jacobs acquired StreetLight Data, Inc. ("StreetLight"). StreetLight is a pioneer of mobility analytics who uses its data and machine learning resources to shed light on mobility and enable users to solve complex transportation problems.

•On November 19, 2021, Jacobs acquired BlackLynx, Inc. ("BlackLynx"), a provider of high-performance software, to complement Jacobs' portfolio of cyber, intelligence and digital solutions. 

•On March 2, 2021, Jacobs completed the strategic investment of a 65% interest in PA Consulting, a UK-based leading innovation and transformation consulting firm. 

•On November 24, 2020, Jacobs completed the acquisition of Buffalo Group, a leader in advanced cyber and intelligence solutions.

•On March 6, 2020, Jacobs acquired the nuclear consulting, remediation and program management business of John Wood Group, a U.K.-based energy services company.

•On June 12, 2019, Jacobs acquired The KeyW Holding Corporation (“KeyW”), a U.S.-based national security technology solutions provider to the intelligence, cyber, and counterterrorism communities.

•On April 26, 2019, Jacobs completed the sale of its Energy, Chemicals and Resources ("ECR") business to Worley Limited, a company incorporated in Australia ("Worley"). ECR provided engineering and construction services mainly for energy, chemicals and resources sectors. With the sale of ECR, the Company exited direct hire construction and fixed price lump sum energy-related construction.

•On December 15, 2017, Jacobs acquired CH2M, a provider of consulting and other services in the water, environmental, transportation and nuclear remediation sectors.

Share Repurchases

During fiscal 2022, the Company repurchased $281.9 million in shares.

Shareholder Dividends

During fiscal 2022, the Company paid dividends of $0.21 per share in the first quarter and $0.23 per share in the second, third and fourth quarters. 

Impact of COVID-19 on Our Business

The COVID-19 pandemic did not have a material impact on our business in fiscal 2022. However, we continue to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions that alter our business operations as may be necessary or appropriate for the health and safety of employees, contractors, customers, suppliers or others or as required by international, federal, state or local authorities.

Based on current estimates, we do not expect any further material business disruptions related to COVID-19 in fiscal 2023.

Looking forward, we continue to embrace and rethink how we will work differently - honing our capabilities to help our clients, innovate and implement. Our reimagined solutions drive resilient outcomes now as the world changes and we face other unprecedented challenges. 

For a discussion of risks and uncertainties related to the challenges associated with the effects of disease outbreaks, including COVID-19, and the potential impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations, see Item 1A - Risk Factors.

Page 11

Lines of Business

The services we provided to our markets in fiscal year 2022 fall into the following lines of business (LOB): Critical Mission Solutions (CMS) and People & Places Solutions (P&PS), and a majority investment in PA Consulting (PA), which are also the Company’s reportable segments. As part of the new Company strategy, starting in fiscal year 2023 Jacobs is forming a new enabling platform, Divergent Solutions (DVS), which further strengthens our ability to drive value for our clients. DVS supports both LOBs as the core foundation for developing and delivering innovative, next-generation cloud, cyber, data and digital technologies.

For additional information regarding our segments, including information about our financial results by segment and financial results by geography, see Note 20 - Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Critical Mission Solutions (CMS) 

In fiscal year 2022, our Critical Mission Solutions line of business provided a full spectrum of cyber, data analytics, systems and software application integration services and consulting; enterprise level IT operations and maintenance and mission IT services; engineering and design; software development, testing and mission integration; enterprise operations and maintenance; program management; research, development, test and evaluation services; specialized training and mission operations; environmental remediation; and other highly technical consulting solutions to government agencies as well as commercial customers in the domestic U.S. and international markets. Our representative clients include the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the Combatant Commands, the U.S. Intelligence Community, NASA, the U.S. Department of Energy (DoE), the U.K. Ministry of Defence, the U.K. Nuclear Decommissioning Authority (NDA), and the Australian Department of Defence, as well as private sector customers mainly in the aerospace, automotive, energy and telecom sectors. 

Serving mission-critical sectors

In fiscal year 2022, CMS served broad sectors, including U.S. Government Services, Cyber, Nuclear Energy, Commercial and International sectors.

The U.S. Government is the world’s largest buyer of technical services, and in fiscal 2022, approximately 73% of CMS’s revenue was earned from serving the DoD, Intelligence Community, DoE and other U.S. Federal Civilian governmental entities. 

Trends affecting our government clients include an evolving external threat environment including information and cyber warfare; digital transformation and IT modernization; national security and defense infrastructure modernization; space exploration and domain dominance; intelligent asset management to improve capability and extend the life of aging facilities; research and development of nuclear fission and fusion energy technologies and solutions to accelerate the global green energy transition; and decommissioning and remediation of legacy nuclear sites, all of which are driving demand for our highly technical solutions. 

We are also witnessing an increase in the capabilities of unmanned aircraft and hypersonic weapons, which is impacting both offensive and defensive spending priorities among our clients and is a driver for next generation solutions such as C5ISR (command, control, communications, computer, combat systems, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance) and advanced aeronautical and aerothermal testing, respectively. We are also seeing an increase in space exploration initiatives both from the U.S. government, such as NASA’s Artemis program to return to the moon in 2024, as well as the commercial sector. 

Within nuclear energy and as part of our Climate Response, our customers have decades-long initiatives to manage and upgrade existing energy infrastructure, construct new nuclear power plants as well as small and advanced modular reactors, and decommission and remediate end-of-life assets. Our customers also manage critical nuclear facilities supporting national security objectives.

Our international customers, which accounted for 18% of fiscal 2022 revenue, have also increased demand for our IT and advanced infrastructure solutions and nuclear energy capabilities, and the U.K. Ministry of Defence continues to focus on accelerating its strategic innovative and technology focused initiatives.

Leveraging our base market of offering valued technical services to U.S. government customers, CMS also serves commercial markets. In fiscal 2022, approximately 9% of CMS’s revenue was from various U.S. commercial sectors, including the telecommunications sector, which anticipates a large cellular infrastructure build-out from 4G to 5G technology. And like our government facility-based clients, our commercial manufacturing clients are seeking ways to 

Page 12

improve capabilities, reduce maintenance costs and optimize their facilities with network connected facilities and equipment, which we refer to as Intelligent Asset Management. Many clients in the commercial aerospace and automotive sectors also look to CMS for advanced research and development systems and facilities that enable advanced product development.

Page 13

People & Places Solutions (P&PS) 

In fiscal 2022, Jacobs' People & Places Solutions line of business provided end-to-end solutions for our clients’ most complex challenges including solutions related to climate change, energy transition, connected mobility, integrated water management, smart cities and vaccine manufacturing. In doing so, we combine deep market-based expertise in each of our chosen sectors - Transportation, Water, Cities & Places, Environmental, Energy & Power, Health & Life Sciences and Advanced Manufacturing.

Our core skills revolve around consulting, planning, science, architecture, design and engineering, as well as infrastructure delivery services and long-term operation of facilities. Solutions may be delivered as standalone professional service engagements, comprehensive program management partnerships, and selective progressive design-build and construction management at-risk delivery services in targeted markets. Increasingly, we are leveraging our data science and technology-enabled expertise with our core skills to deliver positive and enduring outcomes for the clients and communities we serve.

Our clients include national, state and local government in the U.S., Europe, U.K., Middle East, Australia, New Zealand and Asia, as well as multinational and local private sector clients throughout the world.

Serving broad industry sectors that support people and places

Infrastructure modernization; climate action; urbanization; water, food and energy security; strengthening global supply chains and pandemic preparedness; ESG; and digital transformation are driving new challenges and opportunities for our clients. These drivers are highlighting the need for holistic, integrated solutions that draw on our significant domain knowledge across our chosen markets. For example, an airport is now a smart city with extensive operational, cybersecurity, sustainability and autonomous mobility requirements. City master planning now requires advanced analytics to plan for climate adaptation, just and equitable inclusion, and next-generation mobility services. The future of major utilities (water, power/energy, telecommunications) has become highly technology-enabled, leveraging use of digital twins, predictive analytics and smart metering technology to maximize services in the most carbon and commercially efficient manner while protecting the natural environment and the security of supply. 

This increase in technology-enabled solutions is a key factor in our growth strategy - both organic and through our recent acquisitions and strategic investments. Our business model is evolving to include proprietary software and analytics to solve modern challenges. A key example of this is in the Transportation sector with the recent acquisition of StreetLight.

The combination of these attributes results in a significant effort to modernize infrastructure around the globe. Key examples include advising transit agencies as they decarbonize vehicle fleets, including the electrification of New York City’s bus fleet - the largest in North America. We design and deliver battery and vehicle manufacturing facilities for private clients across North America and Europe. In the Energy & Power space, we are supporting the buildout of enabling infrastructure supporting the development of offshore wind assets, especially in the northeast United States. Our knowledge in the environmental, water and wastewater, solid waste, aviation and infrastructure markets has made us a top-ranked environmental consultant and we have supported clients with PFAS assessment and remediation at thousands of sites. Finally, we have long-standing partnerships with the world’s leading life sciences firms, designing and delivering advanced facilities that manufacture critical life-changing vaccines and therapies. 

A strong foundation of innovative solutions, a culture of sustainability and inclusion, a focus on climate response and resilience, and an expansive consulting and advisory mindset are woven into every project we deliver for the benefit of people and places in the communities we serve. 

PA Consulting 

Jacobs holds a 65% stake in PA Consulting, the consultancy that is Bringing Ingenuity to Life. Its diverse teams of experts combine innovative thinking and breakthrough technologies to progress further, faster. PA’s clients adapt and transform and together they achieve enduring results. PA Consulting's roughly 4,000 employees work across seven sectors: consumer and manufacturing, defense and security, energy and utilities, financial services, government, health and life sciences, and transport. PA Consulting's people are strategists, innovators, designers, consultants, digital experts, scientists, engineers and technologists. The team operates globally from offices across the U.K., Ireland, U.S., Nordics and Netherlands.

Page 14

PA Consulting offers end-to-end innovation, accelerating new growth ideas from concept, through design, development, and to commercial success, and revitalizing organizations, building the leadership, culture, systems and processes to make innovation a reality. PA Consulting has a diverse mix of private and public sector clients, from global household names to start-ups, to national and local public services.

Jacobs and PA Consulting recognize that unprecedented changes in society and technology are creating new opportunities to make a positive impact, and together, the companies are supporting clients to address five key trends: product and service innovation; the future of work; sustainability and climate change; the quest to lead healthier lives; and the challenges of keeping people (and the organizations they work for) safe. PA Consulting’s distinct brand, market positioning and competitive differentiation positions the company well to help clients respond and seize new opportunities.

In the last year, PA Consulting supported the launch of a new Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Fund to drive the roll-out of electric vehicle charging infrastructure in the U.K.; accelerated a new digital customer experience for the international sandwich and coffee chain Pret a Manger; innovated cell and gene therapy manufacturing with Ori Biotech in the US; designed a growth strategy for Green Boom, a US-based start-up that has developed a patent-pending and sustainable way to help prevent, reduce, and clean up oil spills; built and operated a Next Generation Digital Platform for the American College of Emergency Physicians; and digitized the customer experience at Trafikverket, the Swedish Transport Authority. PA Consulting also continued its work with the U.K. government leading the sourcing and distribution of COVID-19 vaccines.

Energy, Chemicals and Resources 

ECR Disposition

On April 26, 2019, Jacobs completed the sale of its ECR business to Worley for a purchase price of $3.4 billion consisting of (i) $2.8 billion in cash plus (ii) 58.2 million ordinary shares of Worley, subject to adjustments for changes in working capital and certain other items (the ECR sale).

As a result of the ECR sale, substantially all ECR-related assets and liabilities were sold (the "Disposal Group") and it was determined that the Disposal Group should be reported as discontinued operations in accordance with ASC 210-05, Discontinued Operations because their disposal represented a strategic shift that had a major effect on our operations and financial results. As such, the financial results of the ECR business are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings as discontinued operations for all periods presented. For further discussion, see Note 16- Sale of Energy, Chemicals and Resources ("ECR") Business to the consolidated financial statements.

Significant Customers

The following table sets forth the percentage of total revenues earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government for each of the last three fiscal years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Given the percentage of total revenue derived directly from the U.S. federal government, the loss of U.S. federal government agencies as customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, any or all of our government contracts could be terminated, we could be suspended or debarred from all government contract work, or payment of our costs could be disallowed. Approximately 84% of revenue derived directly from the U.S. federal government is in the CMS segment. For more information on risks relating to our government contracts, see Item 1A - Risk Factors.

Contracts

While there is considerable variation in the pricing provisions of the contracts we undertake, our contracts generally fall into two broad categories: cost-reimbursable and fixed-price. The following table sets forth the percentages of total revenues represented by these types of contracts for each of the last three fiscal years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Page 15

In accordance with industry practice, most of our contracts (including those with the U.S. federal government) are subject to termination at the discretion of the client, which is discussed in greater detail in Item 1A - Risk Factors. In such situations, our contracts typically provide for reimbursement of costs incurred and payment of fees earned through the date of termination.

Cost-Reimbursable Contracts

Cost-reimbursable contracts generally provide for reimbursement of costs incurred plus an amount of profit. The profit element may be in the form of a simple mark-up applied to the labor costs incurred or it may be in the form of a fee, or a combination of a mark-up and a fee. The fee element can also take several forms. The fee may be a fixed amount; it may be an amount based on a percentage of the costs incurred; or it may be an incentive fee based on targets, milestones, or performance factors defined in the contract.

Fixed-Price Contracts

Fixed-price contracts include both “lump sum bid” contracts and “negotiated fixed-price” contracts. Under lump sum bid contracts, we typically bid against competitors based on client-furnished specifications. This type of pricing presents certain inherent risks, including the possibility of ambiguities in the specifications received, problems with new technologies, and economic and other changes that may occur over the contract period. Additionally, it is not unusual for lump sum bid contracts to lead to an adversarial relationship with clients, which is contrary to our relationship-based business model. Accordingly, lump sum bid contracts are not our preferred form of contract. In contrast, under a negotiated fixed-price contract, we are selected as the contractor first and then we negotiate a price with our client. Negotiated fixed-price contracts frequently exist in single-responsibility arrangements where we perform some portion of the work before negotiating the total price of the project. Thus, although both types of contracts involve a firm price for the client, the lump sum bid contract provides the greater degree of risk to us in our services contracts as well as construction. However, because of economies that may be realized during the contract term, both negotiated fixed-price and lump sum bid contracts may offer greater profit potential than other types of contracts. The Company carefully manages the risk inherent in these types of contracts. In recent years, most of our fixed-price work has been either negotiated fixed-price contracts or lump sum bid contracts for design and/or project services, rather than turnkey construction.

Competition

We compete with a large number of companies across the world including technology consulting, federal IT services, aerospace, defense and engineering firms. Typically, no single company or companies dominate the markets in which we provide services and in many cases we partner with our competitors or other companies to jointly pursue projects. AECOM, Booz Allen, CACI, KBR, Leidos, ManTech, Parsons, SAIC, Tetra Tech, WSP, General Dynamics, Northrop Grumman, Accenture, Altair, Stantec, Montrose, Capgemini, Cognizant, DXC Technology, Fluor, 3LHarris, EPAM Systems, Globant, Endava, Exponent, IBM, Infosys, Deloitte, KPMG, PwC, Perficient, Procure, ICF International, TTEC and Huron are some of our competitors. We compete based on the following factors, among others: technical capabilities, reputation for quality, price of services, safety record, availability of qualified personnel, and ability to timely perform work and contract terms. 

Our People

At Jacobs, our people are the heart of our business. With our culture of caring and inclusion as our foundation, we celebrate the differences that drive our collective strength and encourage our employees that there is no limit to who they can be and what we can achieve. Together, we deliver extraordinary solutions for a better tomorrow and live by our employee value statement: "Jacobs. A world where you can."

We know that our people are key to the successful delivery of our bold new strategy. The foundation we built and the culture we fostered give us a strong platform to launch the next step in our journey. Our new strategy further connects our people to our purpose and helps us continue to evolve our culture to support, empower and enable our talent to thrive. We launched the strategy with our employees globally through a robust rollout plan so that everyone could engage, understand and align to the strategy. Through a series of town halls, interactive discussion panels, regional and team strategy workshops, supported by extensive resources and other communications, employees were able to connect their role and the part they play in the overall strategy. 

Page 16

One essential ingredient that will help us deliver our new strategy is trust. Having trust is important to our culture at Jacobs and to our value, ‘We live inclusion.’ So, we revised our inclusion value to reinforce the idea of building trust – in each other and across the company. It reinforces our emphasis on trust in a highly visible way. Trust enables us to collaborate more seamlessly, work with greater flexibility and agility, and innovate more easily to deliver more effective client solutions and results.

 Attracting, Engaging and Developing our Workforce

As of September 30, 2022, we had a workforce of approximately 60,000 people worldwide, including a contingent workforce of approximately 3,300 people. This represents an increase of 7% in our total workforce year-over-year primarily as a result of continued growth in our People & Places Solutions Line of Business. The breakdown of our employees by region is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The success of Jacobs is dependent on our ability to hire, retain, engage and leverage highly qualified employees, across the full spectrum of technical, professional, scientific and consulting disciplines.

We put the spotlight on ensuring that Jacobs is a merit-based organization that is inclusive and diverse; we are building an inclusive culture where all employees feel they belong. Our culture is the foundation for selecting, developing and retaining the best and brightest minds at Jacobs. With a unique network membership of nearly 18,000 people in our eight Jacobs Employee Networks and close to 13,000 in a Community of Practice, our people play a critical role in attracting new talent into our business, helping to shape our recruiting strategies and policies, our science, technology, engineering, arts and math (STEAM) programs, and our accessibility practices. In fiscal 2022, more than 2,600 graduates, interns and apprentices were welcomed to our global team. Our new Navigator program plays an important role in helping people find their place at Jacobs. Employees share their knowledge and experience by becoming a Navigator, the go-to partner for questions in our new employees’ first month on the job. Jacobs was selected for the 2022 WayUp Top 100 Internship Programs List, which considers factors such as how our program is helping interns build a professional community and grow in their careers, to its commitment to advancing inclusion, diversity and equity. 

Since the first Jacobs employee survey in 2015, we have tracked employee feedback at a global level and have built on this engagement. In fiscal year 2022, our people provided feedback in our confidential culture survey that explored cultural alignment and engagement. Results were overwhelmingly positive, with the majority of respondents feeling connected to our values, inspired by our culture of integrity, safety, and inclusion — and proud to be part of Jacobs. To continually evaluate progress in the strategic priority areas and identify new opportunities for growth, we are conducting smaller, periodic pulse surveys with employees. The first was deployed in January 2022 and showed that many employees feel comfortable being their unique selves at work, they see the benefits of an increasingly diverse leadership team and feel they can succeed regardless of their backgrounds, they have the flexibility and autonomy to successfully thrive in a hybrid work environment, and they see teamwork as a real strength at Jacobs. 

Our unique employee experience platform – e3: engage. excel. elevate. – is not just a system but a mindset for developing our employees through continuous feedback and celebrations, aligning priorities, learning new skills and upskilling knowledge. As of October 13, 2022, 93.5% of our employees who were required to do so have participated in their current annual conversation about their priorities and accomplishments. In fiscal year 2022, our e3 learning platform provided over 26,000 training programs to employees globally. We accelerated talent development in creating sustainable solutions through, for example, the Climate Solutions Accelerator online course (developed in partnership with the Royal Scottish Geographic Society) offered to all employees to help them understand the role they can play in climate change action and continue to develop the critical green skills and solutions needed for our continually evolving world. 

Page 17

In addition, 555 of our Jacobs leaders have engaged with Amplifi3, a program with top-notch educators, to strengthen inspirational leadership and development of inclusive, innovative teams to enhance strategy engagement and execution across our global organization. This past year we also offered the CEO Leadership Roundtable where 7,800 of Jacobs' people leaders were invited to a series of four programs led by Chair and CEO Steve Demetriou. They engaged on topics such as Jacobs’ leadership philosophy and values; delivering on our strategy and empowering our people; and creating meaningful leadership relationships with teams. In addition, certain employees, who were nominated by their managers, also participated in our Accelerated Development program. 

At Jacobs, we have implemented a Talent Steering Committee made up of senior leaders focused on key talent decisions and ongoing leadership development. We initiated a Culture and People Steering Committee with over 40 employees from around the globe to provide input on our talent strategies and to provide a sense check on our various programs. 

Our JENs offer mentoring programs that connect members with leaders who understand the unique challenges of their journeys and provide insight and guidance for those looking to elevate their careers. Our Board of Directors is also engaged with our JENs and leadership programs, participating in panel discussions and mentoring events within the Company, and at industry events.

Focus on Inclusion and Diversity

At Jacobs we have a powerful focus on inclusion, with a diverse team of visionaries, thinkers and doers. We embrace all perspectives, collaborating to make a positive impact. Joining, belonging and thriving are Jacobs’ key elements in retaining talent and developing a culture where people want to stay – and a place where you can bring your best, whole self to work. 

TogetherBeyond℠ is our approach to living inclusion every day and enabling diversity and equity globally – it is not just about numbers and statistics, but about every one of our people and the collective strength we take from their unique perspectives and ambitions.

Our I&D objectives continue to evolve and are integral to our new strategy which recognizes that by valuing our people and their unique perspectives, we unleash empowerment, innovation and inspiration.

Operationalizing TogetherBeyond is supported by the strength of tangible leadership commitment and accountability at Jacobs. At fiscal year-end 2022, our Board's independent directors were 56% diverse (race and gender), and our Executive Leadership Team was 64% diverse, based on self-reported data.

Having a culture of belonging where everyone can join in and thrive allows us to recruit and retain the best global talent and drive innovative solutions for our business, clients and communities. Through TogetherBeyond, we tackle topics that are important to our employees such as equality, conscious inclusion and allyship. While providing training and resources to our people is important, equally effective are the regular authentic and courageous conversations our grassroots employee networks are creating around these topics.

We hold all leaders accountable to making sure that broad-based-diversity is reflected in their own teams, using data analytics to measure our progress with the same rigor and transparency as our financial performance metrics. We set an objective in 2022 for all our people leaders to have a TogetherBeyond goal and commit to meaningful and measurable inclusion and diversity (I&D) actions. We ask our Senior Vice Presidents and above to annually sign our I&D commitment statement. All-inclusive behaviors are now a key formal component of all our leaders’ performance and compensation reviews, and all leaders at Vice President level and above are encouraged to mentor two or more junior members of staff, at least one of whom must have lived a different experience from themselves (i.e. on the basis of ethnicity, gender, race, geography, disability, sexuality, gender identity or veteran status). This framework supports the UN's SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities and our two essential I&D priorities: Global Action Plan for Advancing Justice and Equality and our aspirational 40:40:20 goal (40% men, 40% women and 20% any gender) — and ensures that we are propelling a new generation of diverse visionary thinkers throughout our company. Our “Be Seen @ Jacobs” data disclosure campaign allows employees around the globe to confidentially and voluntarily report the demographic data they want to report. We anticipate that this will help us enhance our data reporting, giving us a holistic overview of where our diverse talent sits in the business and the ability to identify and address any pay gaps or inequities that may exist.

Page 18

As of September 30, 2022, our U.S. employees had the following race and ethnicity demographics based on self-reported data:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our focus on creating equal opportunities within Jacobs, including historically underrepresented groups, continues to increase as we deliver on the promises laid out in our Global Action Plan for Advancing Justice and Equality (the "Action Plan") launched in fiscal year 2020. 

In the Action Plan, we committed to investing $10 million over five years to support STEAM programs in Black communities, increase our support of diverse suppliers, and strengthen our commitment to developing and hiring the best diverse talent. In fiscal year 2022, we invested more than $0.9 million towards this commitment. We launched the Jacobs Equity and Advancement Program, a scholarship program and student engagement plan that provides monetary supplement to Black STEAM education, and also provides opportunities for research, mentorship, and continued STEAM outreach by Jacobs professionals. Examples include a partnership with SEED LA’s new campus in South Los Angeles, scholarships for outstanding Black students at the University of Connecticut and with the Cowrie Scholarship Foundation in the U.K., and a Tier 1 partnership with Howard University where Jacobs is renovating a computer lab and creating five scholarships.

Another key success story driven by the Action Plan is our ongoing commitment to supplier diversity, part of the Action Plan’s goal to “contribute to structural change in the broader society”. We are focusing on intentionally working with minority and veteran-owned small or disadvantaged businesses across the globe, and are working on quantifying diverse supplier spend.

Our Jacobs Employee Networks continue to lead STEAM outreach efforts in the communities that we serve and are working to bring a new generation of diverse visionaries from underrepresented and underserved groups into the industry. 

As of September 30, 2022, our global employees had the following gender demographics based on self-reported data:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total U.S. diversity (ethnicity & female) was 48.2% (excludes contingent workers and craft employees). In partnership with our Women’s Network, we deliver various workforce diversity initiatives to elevate the value of women in the workplace, while fostering the next generation of professional women. Over the past two years, strategic efforts have included tools and resources to support gender-balanced interview teams, flexible working arrangements, improved caregiver leave, a resource that helps employees navigate different pathways to parenthood, and “Bridge the Gap”, a program that actively supports parents returning to work. We are in constant communication with our employees about their healthcare needs. Following the overturning of Roe v. Wade, we held multiple listening sessions to learn what is important to employees from many aspects. We identified a broad array of support options and work with our healthcare providers to ensure all employees have access to medical care for their unique situations. 

Page 19

In fiscal year 2022, we were named one of The Times Top 50 Employers for Women 2021, the U.K.’s most highly profiled and well-established listing of employers striving for gender equality in the workplace.

In fiscal year 2022, our U.S. university hiring demographics show hires of 41% female, 57% male, and 2% undisclosed or non-binary gender, as well as 42.5% ethnically diverse employees. Overall U.S. hiring at Jacobs is at 36% for ethnically diverse employees (excludes contingent workers and craft employees) in 2022.

We supported our Prism network to ensure that our LGBTQ+ family is fully included by continuing to establish gender-neutral restrooms, train HR specialists on transgender guidelines and review healthcare plans to ensure they are inclusive. In fiscal 2022, we were named the WGEA Employer of Choice for Gender Equality in Australia and Best Place to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality in the Human Rights Campaign's Corporate Equality Index for the fourth year running, and in the U.K. we ranked #6 in Stonewall's Workplace Equality Index, #1 in their "Construction, Engineering and Property" sector.

Through VetNet, our employee network for veterans, their families and current military reserve members, we continue to work to recruit, develop and retain the best military and veteran talent, partnering with key organizations like Hiring Our Heroes, Boots2Roots and HirePurpose. We were proud to be named by DiversityComm Best of the Best List of veteran-friendly companies in U.S. Veterans Magazine, Top Supplier Diversity Programs in 2022. 

Our ACE employee network connects and empowers members living with disability, health challenges or neurodiversity, and those who provide care to others. ACE embraces the social model of disability which aims to identify and remove the social, digital, and physical barriers that create exclusion in the workplace and society in general. In August 2022, we achieved the Clear Assured Gold Standard for Workplace Diversity and Inclusion in the U.K. We also received our first top score of 100 in the 2021 Disability Equality Index, a joint initiative of the American Association of People with Disabilities and Disability:IN, the leading nonprofit resource for business disability inclusion worldwide. 

Our One World employee network continues to celebrate cultures around the globe and to foster global connectivity, nurturing and supporting our diverse employees and clients across all ethnicities and cultures.

Through our Jacobs Careers Network (JCN), we empower every employee to maximize their potential and make Jacobs the industry leader and workplace of choice. JCN organizes and supports career-enriching development and networking opportunities in all our geographies.

Looking ahead, we will continue to focus on inclusion, belonging and diversity by:

•Continuing action through our global Action Plan for Advancing Justice and Equality

•Striving to achieve our aspirational goals of creating a more gender-balanced and a more racially/ethnically diverse workforce around the globe to more appropriately reflect the labor markets and communities in which we live and serve 

•Amplifying our culture of belonging and helping all employees see the various communities they can engage with at Jacobs so that everyone has a sense of belonging

•Following through on our priority areas identified through our global employee pulse surveys

•Identifying, developing and promoting allies across Jacobs

•Continue our data sharing campaign and enhance data reporting

•Continue to grow the diversity of talent for early career to experience staff through our graduates, interns, apprentices and STEAM education opportunities

•Increase measurement and diversification of our supply chain to increase our impact.

Our Employees’ Safety and Wellbeing 

As global challenges to our security, well-being and ability to operate evolve, we stay focused on managing HSE and security risks effectively and leveraging our Culture of Caring℠ to deliver the best outcomes for our people, the environment and our company. Our BeyondZero® program continues to drive a safer, more secure, healthier, and more resilient future for our Jacobs family, our communities and the environment. Our business continuity program to assure business delivery and resilience continues to prove its effectiveness in an ever-changing operational environment.

We also continue to demonstrate safety excellence with another year of zero employee fatalities at work and a total recordable incident rate1 of 0.18, compared to the North American Industry Classification System’s most recently reported2 aggregate rate of 0.60. 

Page 20

We launched an enhanced Global Travel Assistance program in partnership with our new Global Assistance & Response provider, International SOS, helping keep our employees safe and healthy while traveling or on assignment outside their home country.

With the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, our immediate concern has been the safety and well-being of our colleagues and their families in Ukraine — we stayed in close communication, offering support and guidance. Our Employee Assistance Program is available globally to refugees hosted by Jacobs employees as household members. We also launched a humanitarian relief effort through our Collectively Global Giving and Volunteering program.

Our focus on health and well-being supports the UN's SDG 3: Good Health and Wellbeing. Our global well-being program, for example, is about helping our people individually be at their best physically, emotionally, financially and socially – so we’re able to do more together. The program includes Jacobs’ One Million Lives, developed in collaboration with global mental health professionals, to provide a free, publicly available, mental health check-in tool with a resources website that enable users to check their own mental health and access proactive strategies for personal mental health development. Over 26,000 One Million Lives check-ins were completed between December 2020 launch and our fiscal year end 2022. We launched a new Wellbeing Portal for our employees which provides information on supporting all elements of our well-being program. Additionally, our e3 Learning platform provides employees with self-guided learning opportunities in well-being and related topics.

More than 2,400 Positive Mental Health Champions actively support the mental well-being of our employees and one in every 24 employees is trained as a Positive Mental Health Champion. In addition, we continued our One Million Lives resiliency calls every quarter for our employees where we have open conversations to explore mental health related topics that can help us all learn to flourish.

We are committed to continue our work to create an inclusive and innovative organization and are taking action to ensure Jacobs is, and remains, an employer of choice. 

1 As at October 15, 2022 and recorded in accordance with OSHA record keeping requirements, but subject to change thereafter due to possible injury/illness classification changes. The TRIR calculation uses the US OSHA formula of ‘Number of Incidents x 200,000 / total number of hours worked in a year’. The 200,000 is the benchmark established by OSHA because it represents the total number of hours 100 employees would log in 50 weeks based on a 40-hour work week.

2 Cited on October 5th, 2022 via U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics - Incidence rates of non-fatal occupational injuries and illnesses by industry and case types, 2020 for NAICS code 54133.

Information About Our Executive Officers

The information required by Paragraph (a), and Paragraphs (c) through (g) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K (except for information required by Paragraph (e) of that Item to the extent the required information pertains to our executive officers) and Item 405 of Regulation S-K is set forth under the caption “Members of the Board of Directors” in our definitive proxy statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year and is incorporated herein by reference.

The following table presents the information required by Paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

All of the officers listed in the preceding table serve in their respective capacities at the pleasure of the Board of Directors of the Company.

Page 21

Mr. Demetriou joined the Company in August 2015. Mr. Demetriou served as Chairman and CEO of Aleris Corporation for 14 years, a global downstream aluminum producer based in Cleveland, Ohio. Over the course of his career, he has gained broad experience with companies in a range of industries including metals, specialty chemicals, oil & gas, manufacturing and fertilizers.

Mr. Berryman joined the Company in December 2014. Mr. Berryman served as EVP and CFO for five years at International Flavors and Fragrances Inc., an S&P 500 company and leading global creator of flavors and fragrances used in a wide variety of consumer products. Prior to that, he spent 25 years at Nestlé in a number of finance roles including treasury, mergers & acquisitions, strategic planning and control.

Mr. Pragada rejoined the Company in February 2016 after serving as President and Chief Executive Officer of The Brock Group since August 2014. From March 2006 to August 2014 Mr. Pragada served in executive and senior leadership capacities with the Company. Mr. Pragada has been selected by the Board of Directors to succeed Mr. Demetriou as Chief Executive Officer of the Company as of January 24, 2023, when Mr. Demetriou will assume the role of Executive Chair.

Mr. Arnette joined the Company in 1995. Mr. Arnette's career at Jacobs spans more than 25 years in several senior leadership positions, crossing multiple sectors and operations. Most recently he led CMS's largest business unit as Senior Vice President of Advanced Engineering, Research & Operations, serving public and private sector clients around the globe with solutions for complex, mission-essential programs and projects in aerospace, automotive, defense and telecommunications sectors.

Ms. Caruso joined the Company in 2012. Prior to becoming Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Administrative Officer, Ms. Caruso was Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, and previously held the positions of Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources and Vice President, Global Litigation. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Caruso was a partner in two international law firms, Howrey LLP and Baker & Hostetler LLP.

Mr. Hill joined the Company through the SKM acquisition, where he started in 1998. Mr. Hill has served in several senior leadership positions crossing multiple sectors and operations throughout Australia, New Zealand, Asia, Europe, the Middle East and the United States. Prior to his appointment as President – People & Places Solutions, Mr. Hill jointly led People & Places Solutions with day-to-day responsibilities for Jacobs' Buildings and Infrastructure global operations outside of North America. 

Ms. Miller joined the Company in 1998. During her almost 25-year career at Jacobs, Ms. Miller has had a rich and varied global journey in operations, sales and functional roles leading cultural and digital transformation for both the company and its markets, including technology, resources, infrastructure, pharmaceutical and consumer products. Most recently Ms. Miller served as Jacobs’ Chief Growth Officer and lead for Enterprise Risk Management. 

Mr. Allen joined the Company in October 2016. Mr. Allen served as Vice President, Finance and Principal Accounting Officer at LyondellBasell Industries, N.V. from 2013 to 2016. Prior to that, he was with Albemarle Corporation, where he served as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from 2009 to 2013 after serving in CFO roles for their Catalysts and Fine Chemistry businesses from 2005 to 2009.

Additional Information

Jacobs was founded in 1947 and incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1987. We are headquartered in Dallas, Texas, USA. The SEC maintains a site on the Internet that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s website is http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and download the various reports we file with, or furnish to, the SEC free of charge from our website at www.jacobs.com.

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS