Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this Form 10-K. Historical results and percentage relationships set forth in the Consolidated Statements of Income contained in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including trends, should not be taken as indicative of future operations. 

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include the accounts of the Company, its wholly owned subsidiaries and all entities in which the Company has a controlling interest, including where the Company has been determined to be a primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity in accordance with the consolidation guidance of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification. The Company applies these provisions to each of its joint venture investments to determine whether the cost, equity or consolidation method of accounting is appropriate. The Company evaluates performance on a property specific or transactional basis and does not distinguish its principal business or group its operations on a geographical basis for purposes of measuring performance. Accordingly, the Company believes it has a single reportable segment for disclosure purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). 

Critical Accounting Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. In preparing these financial statements, management has made its best estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. These estimates are based on, but not limited to, historical results, industry standards and current economic conditions, giving due consideration to materiality. The most significant assumptions and estimates relate to the recoverability of trade accounts receivable, depreciable lives, valuation of real estate and intangible assets and liabilities, and valuation of joint venture investments and other investments. Application of these assumptions requires the exercise of judgment as to future uncertainties, and, as a result, actual results could materially differ from these estimates. 

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to whether there are impairments in the value of its real estate properties, investments in joint ventures and other investments. The Company’s reported net earnings are directly affected by management’s estimate of impairments. 

 25    

 Table of Contents     

Trade Accounts Receivable 

The Company reviews its trade accounts receivable, including its straight-line rent receivable, related to base rents, straight-line rent, expense reimbursements and other revenues for collectability. When evaluating the probability of the collection of the lessee’s total accounts receivable, including the corresponding straight-line rent receivable balance on a lease-by-lease basis, the Company considered the effects COVID-19 has had on its tenants, including the corresponding straight-line rent receivable. The Company’s analysis of its accounts receivable included (i) customer credit worthiness, (ii) assessment of risk associated with the tenant, and (iii) current economic trends. In addition, tenants in bankruptcy are analyzed and considerations are made in connection with the expected recovery of pre-petition and post-petition bankruptcy claims. The Company includes provision for doubtful accounts in Revenues from rental properties, net. If a lessee’s accounts receivable balance is considered uncollectible, the Company will write-off the receivable balances associated with the lease and will only recognize lease income on a cash basis. In addition to the lease-specific collectability assessment, the analysis also recognizes a general reserve, as a reduction to Revenues from rental properties, for its portfolio of operating lease receivables which are not expected to be fully collectible based on the Company’s historical and current collection experience and the potential for settlement of arrears. Although the Company estimates uncollectible receivables and provides for them through charges against revenues from rental properties, actual results may differ from those estimates. If the Company subsequently determines that it is probable it will collect the remaining lessee’s lease payments under the lease term, the Company will then reinstate the straight-line balance and the lease income will then be limited to the lesser of (i) the straight-line rental income or (ii) the lease payments that have been collected from the lessee. 

Real Estate  

Valuation of Real Estate, and Intangible Assets and Liabilities 

The Company’s investments in real estate properties are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Significant renovations and replacements, which improve and extend the life of the asset, are capitalized. 

Transaction costs related to acquisitions that qualify as asset acquisitions are capitalized as part of the cost basis of the acquired assets, while transaction costs for acquisitions that are deemed to be business combinations are expensed as incurred. Also, upon acquisition of real estate operating properties in either an asset acquisition or business combination, the Company estimates the fair value of acquired tangible assets (consisting of land, building, building improvements and tenant improvements) and identified intangible assets and liabilities (consisting of above and below-market leases, in-place leases, and tenant relationships, where applicable), assumed debt and redeemable units issued at the date of acquisition, based on evaluation of information and estimates available at that date. Fair value is determined based on a market approach, which contemplates the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. 

Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows: 

  Buildings and building improvements (in years)     5 to 50   

  Fixtures, leasehold and tenant improvements (including certain identified intangible assets)     

Terms of leases or useful lives, 

whichever is shorter     

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of its properties for purposes of determining the amount of depreciation to reflect on an annual basis with respect to those properties. These assessments have a direct impact on the Company’s net earnings. 

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance, changes in anticipated holding period, general market conditions and delays of development, that the value of the real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may be impaired. A property value is considered impaired only if management’s estimate of current and projected operating cash flows, net of anticipated construction and leasing costs (undiscounted and unleveraged), of the property over its anticipated hold period is less than the net carrying value of the property. Such cash flow projections consider factors such as expected future costs of materials and labor, operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors. To the extent impairment has occurred, the carrying value of the property would be adjusted to reflect the estimated fair value of the property. The Company’s estimated fair values are primarily based upon estimated sales prices from signed contracts or letters of intent from third-parties, discounted cash flow models or third-party appraisals. Estimated fair values that are based on discounted cash flow models include all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period. Capitalization rates and discount rates utilized in these models are based upon unobservable rates that the Company believes to be within a reasonable range of current market rates. 

See Footnote 3, 4 and 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

Valuation of Joint Venture Investments and Other Investments 

 26    

 Table of Contents     

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the Company’s investments in unconsolidated joint ventures may be impaired. An investment’s value is impaired only if management’s estimate of the fair value of the investment is less than the carrying value of the investment and such difference is deemed to be other-than-temporary. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss will be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the estimated fair value of the investment. Estimated fair values which are based on discounted cash flow models include all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period, capitalization rates and discount rates utilized in these models are based upon unobservable rates that the Company believes to be within a reasonable range of current market rates. 

See Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”, for further discussion of the Company’s accounting policies and estimates. 

Executive Overview 

Kimco Realty Corporation is North America’s largest publicly traded owner and operator of open-air, grocery-anchored shopping centers, including mixed-use assets. The executive officers are engaged in the day-to-day management and operation of real estate exclusively with the Company, with nearly all operating functions, including leasing, asset management, maintenance, construction, legal, finance and accounting, administered by the Company. 

Weingarten Merger 

On August 3, 2021, Weingarten Realty Investors (“Weingarten”) merged with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving public company (the “Merger”), pursuant to the definitive merger agreement (the “Merger Agreement”) between the Company and Weingarten which was entered into on April 15, 2021. The Merger brought together two industry-leading retail real estate platforms with highly complementary portfolios and created the preeminent open-air shopping center and mixed-use real estate owner in the country. As a result of the Merger, the Company acquired 149 properties, including 30 held through joint venture programs. The increased scale in targeted growth markets, coupled with a broader pipeline of redevelopment opportunities, has positioned the combined company to create significant value for its shareholders. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, each Weingarten common share was entitled to 1.408 newly issued shares of the Company’s common stock plus $2.89 in cash, subject to certain adjustments specified in the Merger Agreement. 

On July 15, 2021, Weingarten’s Board of Trust Managers declared a special cash distribution of $0.69 per Weingarten common share (the “Special Distribution”) payable on August 2, 2021 to shareholders of record on July 28, 2021. The Special Distribution was paid in connection with the Merger and to satisfy REIT taxable income distribution requirements. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Weingarten’s payment of the Special Distribution adjusted the cash consideration paid by the Company at the closing of the Merger from $2.89 per Weingarten common share to $2.20 per Weingarten common share and had no impact on the payment of the share consideration of 1.408 newly issued shares of Company common stock for each Weingarten common share owned immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger. 

The total purchase price of the Merger was $4.1 billion, which consists primarily of 179.9 million shares of the Company’s common stock issued in exchange for Weingarten common shares, plus $281.1 million of cash consideration. The total purchase price was calculated based on the closing price of the Company’s common stock on August 3, 2021, which was $20.78 per share. At the effective time of the Merger, each Weingarten common share, issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger (other than any shares owned directly by the Company or Weingarten and in each case not held on behalf of third parties) was converted into 1.408 shares of newly issued shares of the Company’s common stock. See Footnote 2 to the Notes to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Merger. 

COVID-19 Pandemic 

The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a widespread health crisis that adversely affected businesses, economies and financial markets worldwide. The COVID-19 pandemic significantly impacted the retail sector in which the Company operates. The majority of the Company’s tenants and their operations have been, and may continue to be impacted. Through the duration of the pandemic, a substantial number of tenants had to temporarily or permanently close their business, shortened their operating hours or offer reduced services for some period of time. 

 27    

 Table of Contents     

The development and distribution of COVID-19 vaccines has assisted in allowing many restrictions to be lifted, providing a path to recovery. The U.S. economy continues to build upon the reopening trend as businesses reopen to full capacity and stimulus is flowing through to the consumer. The overall economy continues to recover but several issues including lack of qualified employees, inflation risk, supply chain bottlenecks and COVID-19 variants have impacted the pace of the recovery.  

The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, in the near term, will continue to depend on future developments, which continue to be uncertain, including new information that may emerge concerning the severity of COVID-19, variants, the distribution and effectiveness as well as the willingness to take the vaccines, the impact of COVID-19 on economic activity, the effect of COVID-19 on the Company’s tenants and their businesses, the ability of tenants to make their rental payments and any additional closures of tenants’ businesses.  

The Company continues to monitor the impact of COVID-19 on the Company’s business, tenants and industry as a whole. The magnitude and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the Company’s operations and liquidity remains uncertain as the pandemic continues to evolve globally and within the United States. The Company will continue to monitor the economic, financial, and social conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and will assess its asset portfolio for any impairment indicators. In addition, the Company will continue to monitor for any material or adverse effects resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. If the Company determines that any of its assets are impaired, the Company would be required to take impairment charges, and such amounts could be material. 

Although the Company continues to see an increase in collections of rental payments, the effects COVID-19 have had on its tenants are still heavily considered when evaluating the adequacy of the collectability of the tenant’s total accounts receivable balance, including the corresponding straight-line rent receivable. As of December 31, 2021, the Company’s consolidated accounts receivable balance was 35% potentially uncollectible, including receivables from tenants that are being accounted for on a cash basis, and 11% of the Company’s straight-line rent receivables were potentially uncollectible, also inclusive of tenants that are being accounted for on a cash basis. These reserves are primarily attributable to the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic. Management’s estimate of the collectability of accrued rents and accounts receivable is based on the best information available to management at the time of evaluation. The Company will continue to monitor the economic, financial, and social conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and will continue to assess the collectability of its tenant accounts receivables. As such, the Company may determine that further adjustments to its accounts receivable may be required in the future, and such amounts may be material. 

Financial Highlights 

The following highlights the Company’s significant transactions, events and results that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2021: 

Financial and Portfolio Information: 

    ●   Completed the strategic Merger with Weingarten on August 3, 2021 (see additional disclosure in Footnote 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K).     

    ●   Net income available to the Company’s common shareholders was $818.6 million, or $1.60 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to $975.4 million, or $2.25 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2020.     

    ●   FFO was $706.8 million, or $1.38 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to $503.7 million, or $1.17 per diluted share, for the corresponding period in 2020 (see additional disclosure on FFO beginning on page 39).     

    ●   Same property net operating income (“Same property NOI”) was $864.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to $795.2 million the corresponding period in 2020 (see additional disclosure on Same property NOI beginning on page 39).     

    ●   Executed 1,147 new leases, renewals and options totaling approximately 7.5 million square feet in the consolidated operating portfolio.     

    ●   Consolidated operating portfolio occupancy at December 31, 2021 was 94.2% as compared to 93.9% at December 31, 2020.     

Acquisition and Disposition Activity (see Footnotes 2, 4 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K): 

    ●   Acquired 149 properties, including 30 held through joint venture programs, in conjunction with the Merger.     

    ●   Acquired two distribution centers for $84.7 million (which were subsequently sold for $108.0 million) and an outparcel at an existing shopping center in Columbia, MD for $12.6 million     

    ●   Acquired nine properties for an aggregate purchase price of $780.1 million from joint ventures in which the Company previously held noncontrolling ownership interests (a 50% interest in six of these properties was subsequently sold and the Company maintained a 50% noncontrolling ownership interest and deconsolidated the properties)     

    ●   Disposed of 13 operating properties (including the two distribution centers and the deconsolidation of six operating properties noted above) and 10 parcels, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of $612.4 million, which resulted in aggregate gains of $30.8 million, before noncontrolling interests and taxes.     

 28    

 Table of Contents     

Capital Activity (for additional details see Liquidity and Capital Resources below): 

    ●   Issued $500.0 million of 2.25% notes maturing December 2031.     

    ●   Assumed senior unsecured notes of $1.5 billion (including $95.6 million in fair market value adjustments) and mortgage debt of $317.7 million (including $11.0 million in fair market value adjustments) encumbering 16 operating properties in connection with the Merger.     

    ●   Assumed $234.1 million of mortgage debt encumbering nine operating properties, repaid $230.5 million of mortgage debt that encumbered 28 operating properties and deconsolidated $170.0 million of mortgage debt relating to six operating properties.     

    ●   Issued 179.9 million shares of common stock in conjunction with the Merger.     

    ●   As of December 31, 2021, had $2.3 billion in immediate liquidity, including $334.7 million in cash.     

As a result of the above debt activity, the Company’s consolidated debt maturity profile, including extension options as of December 31, 2021, is as follows: 

    ●   As of December 31, 2021, the weighted average interest rate was 3.39% and the weighted average maturity profile was 8.5 years related to the Company’s consolidated debt.     

The Company faces external factors which may influence its future results from operations. The convenience and availability of e-commerce has continued to impact the retail sector, which could affect our ability to increase or maintain rental rates and our ability to renew expiring leases and/or lease available space. To mitigate the effect of e-commerce on its business, the Company’s strategy has been to attract local area customers to its properties by providing a diverse and robust tenant base across a variety of retailers, including grocery stores, off-price retailers, discounters or service-oriented tenants, which offer buy online and pick up in store, off-price merchandise and day-to-day necessities rather than high-priced luxury items. 

The Company’s portfolio is focused on major metropolitan-area U.S. markets, predominantly on the east and west coasts and in the sun belt region, which are supported by strong demographics, significant projected population growth, and where the Company perceives significant barriers to entry. The Company owns a predominantly grocery-anchored portfolio clustered in the nation’s top markets which positioned the Company to overcome many of the challenges brought upon by COVID-19. The Company believes it can continue to increase its occupancy levels, rental rates and overall rental growth. In addition, the Company, on a selective basis, has developed or redeveloped projects which include residential and mixed-use components. 

As part of the Company’s investment strategy, each property is evaluated for its highest and best use, which may include residential and mixed-use components. In addition, the Company may consider other opportunistic investments related to retailer controlled real estate, such as, repositioning underperforming retail locations, retail real estate financing and bankruptcy transaction support. The Company may continue to dispose of certain properties. If the estimated fair value for any of these assets is less than their net carrying values, the Company would be required to take impairment charges and such amounts could be material. For a further discussion of these and other factors that could impact our future results, performance or transactions, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” 

 29  

 Table of Contents     

Results of Operations 

Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 

Results from operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 reflect the results of the Company’s Merger with Weingarten on August 3, 2021 and as a result only reflect the combined operations for five months. Future periods will reflect the combined operations for the entire year. Therefore, our historical financial statements may not be indicative of future operating results. 

The following table presents the comparative results from the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to the corresponding period in 2020 (in thousands, except per share data): 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    (1)   Rent expense relates to ground lease payments for which the Company is the lessee.     

    (2)   Operating and maintenance expense consists of property related costs including repairs and maintenance costs, roof repair, landscaping, parking lot repair, snow removal, utilities, property insurance costs, security and various other property related expenses.     

    (3)   General and administrative expense includes employee-related expenses (including salaries, bonuses, equity awards, benefits, severance costs and payroll taxes), professional fees, office rent, travel and entertainment costs and other company-specific expenses.     

Net income available to the Company’s common shareholders was $818.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to $975.4 million for the comparable period in 2020. On a diluted per share basis, net income available to the Company’s common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2021, was $1.60 as compared to $2.25 for the comparable period in 2020. For additional disclosure, see Footnote 27 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. 

The following describes the changes of certain line items included on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income, that the Company believes changed significantly and affected Net income available to the Company’s common shareholders during the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to the corresponding period in 2020: 

Revenue from rental properties, net – 

The increase in Revenues from rental properties, net of $304.8 million is primarily from (i) an increase in revenues of $197.6 million due to properties acquired, primarily resulting from the Merger, (ii) a net decrease in credit losses from tenants of $86.8 million primarily due to increased collections, (iii) an increase in net straight-line rental income of $28.5 million primarily due to a decrease in reserves, increase in leasing activity and the Merger, and (iv) an increase in lease termination fee income of $9.4 million partially offset by (v) a net decrease in revenues of $17.5 million, primarily due to tenant vacancies and dispositions for the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to the corresponding period in 2020. 

 30    

 Table of Contents     

Real estate taxes – 

The increase in Real estate taxes of $23.6 million is primarily due to an increase in properties acquired through the Merger. 

Operating and maintenance – 

The increase in Operating and maintenance expense of $48.8 million is primarily due to (i) an increase in operating expenses of $31.8 million relating to properties acquired through the Merger, (ii) an increase in utilities, repairs and maintenance, insurance and advertising costs of $11.3 million, primarily due to the reopening of markets throughout the country and (iii) an increase in snow removal costs of $5.7 million. 

General and administrative – 

The increase in General and administrative expense of $10.9 million is primarily due to (i) an increase in employee-related expenses of $16.2 million primarily related to increased staffing due to the Merger and higher performance based compensation bonuses and (ii) an increase of $1.9 million primarily due to the fluctuations in value of various directors’ deferred stock, partially offset by (iii) a decrease in severance charges related to employee retirement and terminations of $8.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to the corresponding period in 2020. 

Impairment charges –  

During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company recognized impairment charges of $3.6 million and $6.6 million, respectively, primarily related to adjustments to property carrying values for which the Company’s estimated fair values were primarily based upon signed contracts or letters of intent from third-party offers. These adjustments to property carrying values were recognized in connection with the Company’s efforts to market certain properties and management’s assessment as to the likelihood and timing of such potential transactions. Certain of the calculations to determine fair values utilized unobservable inputs and, as such, were classified as Level 3 of the FASB’s fair value hierarchy. For additional disclosure, see Footnotes 6 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. 

Merger charges –  

During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company incurred costs of $50.2 million associated with the Merger. These charges are primarily comprised of severance costs and professional and legal fees. 

Depreciation and amortization –  

The increase in Depreciation and amortization of $106.4 million is primarily due to (i) an increase of $108.1 million primarily resulting from property acquisitions in connection with the Merger during 2021 and (ii) an increase of $8.3 million due to depreciation commencing on certain development and redevelopment projects that were placed into service during 2021 and 2020, partially offset by (iii) a decrease of $11.8 million due to write-offs of depreciable assets primarily due to tenant vacates and dispositions during 2020 and 2021. 

Gain on sale of properties –  

During 2021, the Company disposed of 13 operating properties and 10 parcels (including the deconsolidation of 6 operating properties), in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of $612.4 million, which resulted in aggregate gains of $30.8 million. During 2020, the Company disposed of three operating properties and four parcels, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of $31.8 million, for which certain of the transactions resulted in aggregate gains of $6.5 million. 

Other income, net –  

The increase in Other income, net of $15.7 million is primarily due to (i) an increase in dividend income of $12.9 million primarily from the shares of ACI common stock held by the Company and (ii) a net increase in mortgage and other financing income of $4.7 million primarily due to new loans issued during 2021 and 2020, (iii) an increase in net periodic benefit income of $3.6 million relating to the Company's defined benefit plan, partially offset by (iv) an increase of $2.8 million in costs associated with potential transactions for which the Company is no longer pursuing. 

Gain on marketable securities, net –  

The decrease in Gain on marketable securities, net of $89.6 million is primarily the result of mark-to-market fluctuations of the shares of ACI common stock held by the Company, which were obtained during ACI’s initial public offering (“IPO”) in June 2020. The IPO resulted in the Company changing the classification of its ACI investment from a cost method investment to a marketable security. 

 31    

 Table of Contents     

Gain on sale of cost method investment –  

In June 2020, the Company recognized an aggregate gain of $190.8 million related to (i) a $131.6 million gain resulting from ACI’s partial repurchase of its common stock from existing shareholders in conjunction with its issuance of convertible preferred stock and (ii) a gain of $59.2 million in connection with the partial sale of the shares of ACI common stock held by the Company during ACI’s IPO. 

Interest expense –  

The increase in Interest expense of $17.2 million is primarily due to (i) increased levels of borrowings and assumptions of unsecured notes and mortgages in connection with the Merger and public debt offerings and (ii) a decrease in capitalized interest due to certain development and redevelopment projects that were placed into service during 2021 and 2020, partially offset by (iii) the repayment of unsecured notes and mortgages during 2021 and 2020. 

Early extinguishment of debt charges – 

During 2020, the Company fully redeemed $484.9 million of its outstanding 3.20% senior unsecured notes, which were scheduled to mature in May 2021. As a result, the Company incurred a prepayment charge of $7.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. 

Equity in income of joint ventures, net –  

The increase in Equity in income of joint ventures, net of $37.4 million is primarily due to (i) an increase in equity in income of $18.7 million within various joint venture investments during 2021, as compared to the corresponding period in 2020, primarily resulting from a decrease in credit losses due to collections from tenants, including straight-line rental income, (ii) an increase in net gains of $16.6 million resulting from the sale of properties within various joint venture investments during 2021, as compared to the corresponding period in 2020, and (iii) an increase in equity in income of $3.5 million resulting from ownership interests acquired in unconsolidated joint ventures in connection with the Merger, partially offset by (iv) an increase in impairment charges of $1.4 million recognized during 2021, as compared to the corresponding period in 2020. 

Equity in income of other investments, net –  

The decrease in Equity in income of other investments, net of $5.5 million is primarily due to a decrease in equity in income and profit participation from the sale of properties within the Company’s Preferred Equity Program during 2021 and 2020, partially offset by an increase in equity in income from new investments during 2021 and 2020. 

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests –  

The increase in Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of $3.6 million is primarily due to (i) an increase in net gain on sale of properties, within consolidated joint ventures, during 2021, as compared to the corresponding period in 2020 and (ii) an increase in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests recognized in connection with the Merger. 

Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 

Information pertaining to fiscal year 2019 was included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 under Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which was filed with the SEC on February 23, 2021. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The Company’s capital resources include accessing the public debt and equity capital markets, mortgage financing, and immediate access to an unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with bank commitments of $2.0 billion which can be increased to $2.75 billion through an accordion feature. In addition, the Company holds 39.8 million shares of ACI, which had a value of $1.2 billion at December 31, 2021, which are subject to certain contractual lock-up provisions that expire in June 2022. 

The Company’s cash flow activities are summarized as follows (in thousands): 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 32    

 Table of Contents     

Operating Activities 

The Company anticipates that cash on hand, net cash flow provided by operating activities, borrowings under its Credit Facility and the issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company. The Company will continue to evaluate its capital requirements for both its short-term and long-term liquidity needs, which could be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and other risks detailed in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors. See further discussion relating to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic in the “COVID-19 Pandemic” and “Financing Activities” sections within this Item 7. 

Cash flows provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2021, were $618.9 million, as compared to $589.9 million for the comparable period in 2020. The increase of $29.0 million is primarily attributable to: 

    ●   the acquisition of operating properties during 2021 and 2020, including those acquired from the Merger; and     

    ●   new leasing, expansion and re-tenanting of core portfolio properties, partially offset by     

    ●   a decrease in distributions from the Company’s joint ventures programs;     

    ●   nonrecurring costs incurred in connection with the Merger during 2021;     

    ●   changes in operating assets and liabilities due to timing of receipts and payments;     

    ●   rent relief provided to tenants as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic; and     

    ●   the disposition of operating properties in 2021 and 2020.     

Investing Activities 

Cash flows used for investing activities were $476.3 million for 2021, as compared to $33.3 million for 2020. 

Investing activities during 2021 consisted primarily of: 

Cash inflows: 

    ●   $302.8 million in proceeds from the sale of 13 consolidated properties and 10 parcels (including the deconsolidation of 6 operating properties);     

    ●   $111.9 million in reimbursements of investments in and advances to real estate joint ventures and other investments primarily due to the sale of properties within the investments; and     

    ●   $13.8 million in collection of mortgage and other financing receivables.     

Cash outflows: 

    ●   $356.0 million for the acquisition of 11 consolidated operating properties and one parcel;     

    ●   $264.0 million net cash consideration paid in conjunction with the Merger;     

    ●   $163.7 million for improvements to operating real estate primarily related to the Company’s active redevelopment pipeline;     

    ●   $67.1 million for investments in and advances to other investments, primarily related to a preferred equity investment located in San Antonio, TX;     

    ●   $41.9 million for investment in other financing receivables; and     

    ●   $12.6 million for investments in and advances to real estate joint ventures, primarily related to a redevelopment project within the Company’s joint venture portfolio;     

Investing activities during 2020 consisted primarily of: 

Cash inflows: 

    ●   $227.3 million in proceeds from the partial sale of the Company’s ACI cost method investment prior to its IPO and the sale of 4.7 million shares of ACI common stock during its IPO;     

    ●   $30.5 million in proceeds from the sale of three operating properties and four parcels;     

    ●   $17.9 million in reimbursements of investments in and advances to real estate joint ventures and reimbursements of investments in and advances to other investments, primarily related to the sale of properties within the joint venture portfolio and the Company’s Preferred Equity Program; and     

    ●   $2.5 million in proceeds from insurance casualty claims.     

Cash outflows: 

    ●   $243.6 million for improvements to operating real estate primarily related to the Company’s active redevelopment pipeline and improvements to real estate under development;     

    ●   $30.8 million for investments in and advances to real estate joint ventures, primarily related to a redevelopment project and the repayment of a mortgage within the Company’s joint venture portfolio, and investments in other investments, primarily related to an investment in a new preferred equity investment and the repayment of mortgages within the Company’s Preferred Equity Program;     

    ●   $25.0 million for investment in other financing receivable; and     

    ●   $12.6 million for the acquisition of operating real estate.     

 33    

 Table of Contents     

Acquisitions of Operating Real Estate and Other Related Net Assets 

During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company expended $619.9 million and $12.6 million, respectively, towards the acquisition of operating real estate properties, including the Merger in 2021. The Company anticipates spending approximately $100.0 million to $200.0 million towards the acquisition of operating properties during 2022. The Company intends to fund these acquisitions with cash flow from operating activities, proceeds from property dispositions and/or availability under its Credit Facility. 

Improvements to Operating Real Estate 

During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company expended $163.7 million and $221.3 million, respectively, towards improvements to operating real estate. These amounts consist of the following (in thousands): 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    (1)   During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company capitalized payroll of $4.5 million and $9.4 million, respectively, and capitalized interest of $0.6 million and $9.7 million, respectively, in connection with the Company’s improvements to operating real estate.     

The Company has an ongoing program to redevelop and re-tenant its properties to maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. The Company is actively pursuing redevelopment opportunities within its operating portfolio which it believes will increase the overall value by bringing in new tenants and improving the assets’ value. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these redevelopment projects and re-tenanting efforts for 2022 will be approximately $150.0 million to $200.0 million. The funding of these capital requirements will be provided by proceeds from property dispositions, net cash flow provided by operating activities and/or availability under the Company’s Credit Facility. 

Financing Activities 

Cash flows used for financing activities were $101.1 million for 2021, as compared to $387.4 million for 2020. 

Financing activities during 2021 primarily consisted of the following: 

Cash inflows: 

    ●   $500.0 million in proceeds from issuance of 2.25% senior unsecured notes due in 2031; and     

    ●   $83.0 million in proceeds from issuance of common stock, primarily related to the Company’s at-the-market continuous offering program and the exercise of employee stock options.     

Cash outflows: 

    ●   $382.1 million of dividends paid;     

    ●   $239.9 million in principal payment on debt, including normal amortization of rental property debt;     

    ●   $34.6 million in redemption/distribution of noncontrolling interests;     

    ●   $20.8 million in shares repurchased for employee tax withholding on equity awards; and     

    ●   $8.2 million in financing origination costs, primarily in connection with the Company’s issuance of $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes.     

Financing activities during 2020 primarily consisted of the following: 

Cash inflows: 

    ●   $900.0 million in proceeds from issuance of unsecured notes comprised of (i) $500.0 million of the Company’s unsecured 2.70% Green Bond due 2030 and (ii) $400.0 million of the Company’s unsecured 1.90% Notes due 2028; and     

    ●   $590.0 million in proceeds from issuance of the Term Loan.     

Cash outflows: 

    ●   $590.0 million in repayments of the Term Loan;     

    ●   $484.9 million in early redemption of the Company’s 3.20% senior unsecured notes due 2021;     

    ●   $379.9 million of dividends paid;     

    ●   $200.0 million in repayments under the Credit Facility, net;     

    ●   $169.2 million in principal payment on debt (related to the repayment of debt on four encumbered properties), including normal amortization of rental property debt;     

    ●   $23.3 million for the redemption/distribution of noncontrolling interests, primarily related to the redemption of certain partnership interests by consolidated subsidiaries;     

    ●   $18.0 million for financing origination costs, primarily related to the Credit Facility, Term Loan, Green Bond and senior unsecured notes;     

    ●   $7.5 million in payment of early extinguishment of debt charges; and     

    ●   $5.6 million in other financing related costs.     

 34    

 Table of Contents     

The Company continually evaluates its debt maturities, and, based on management’s current assessment, believes it has viable financing and refinancing alternatives that will not materially adversely impact its expected financial results. The Company continues to pursue borrowing opportunities with large commercial U.S. and global banks, select life insurance companies and certain regional and local banks. 

Debt maturities for 2022 consist of: $921.0 million of consolidated debt; $109.3 million of unconsolidated joint venture debt and $2.5 million of debt included in the Company’s Preferred Equity Program, assuming the utilization of extension options where available. The 2022 consolidated debt maturities are anticipated to be repaid with operating cash flows, borrowings from the Credit Facility and public debt offerings, as deemed appropriate. The 2022 debt maturities on properties in the Company’s unconsolidated joint ventures and Preferred Equity Program are anticipated to be repaid through operating cash flows, debt refinancing, unsecured credit facilities, proceeds from sales, of the respective entities and partner capital contributions, as deemed appropriate. 

The Company intends to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios as part of its commitment to maintain or improve its unsecured debt ratings. The Company may, from time to time, seek to obtain funds through additional common and preferred equity offerings, unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage/construction loan financings and other capital alternatives. 

Since the completion of the Company’s IPO in 1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal source of capital for its expansion needs. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate over $16.2 billion. Proceeds from public capital market activities have been used for the purposes of, among other things, repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in open-air, grocery anchored shopping centers and mixed-use assets, funding real estate under development projects, expanding and improving properties in the portfolio and other investments. 

During August 2021, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3, which is effective for a term of three years, for the future unlimited offerings, from time to time, of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock and common stock warrants. The Company, pursuant to this shelf registration statement may, from time to time, offer for sale its senior unsecured debt securities for any general corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its business, including property acquisitions, development and redevelopment costs and (ii) managing the Company’s debt maturities. 

During May 2020, the Company filed a registration statement on Form S-8 for its 2020 Equity Participation Plan (the “2020 Plan”), which was approved by the Company’s stockholders and is a successor to the Restated Kimco Realty Corporation 2010 Equity Participation Plan that expired in March 2020. The 2020 Plan provides for a maximum of 10,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock to be reserved for the issuance of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance awards, dividend equivalents, stock payments and deferred stock awards. At December 31, 2021, the Company had 8.5 million shares of common stock available for issuance under the 2020 Plan. (See Footnote 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K). 

Common Stock –  

During August 2021, the Company established an at-the-market continuous offering program (the “ATM program”) pursuant to which the Company may offer and sell from time-to-time shares of its common stock, par value $0.01 per share, with an aggregate gross sales price of up to $500.0 million through a consortium of banks acting as sales agents. Sales of the shares of common stock may be made, as needed, from time to time in “at the market” offerings as defined in Rule 415 of the Securities Act of 1933, including by means of ordinary brokers’ transactions on the New York Stock Exchange or otherwise (i) at market prices prevailing at the time of sale, (ii) at prices related to prevailing market prices or (iii) as otherwise agreed to with the applicable sales agent. In addition, the Company may from time to time enter into separate forward sale agreements with one or more banks. During 2021, the Company issued 3.5 million shares and received net proceeds after commissions of $76.9 million. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had $422.4 million available under this ATM program. 

 35    

 Table of Contents     

The Company has a share repurchase program, which is scheduled to expire on February 29, 2024. Under this program, the Company may repurchase shares of its common stock, par value $0.01 per share, with an aggregate gross purchase price of up to $300.0 million. The Company did not repurchase any shares under the share repurchase program during the year ended December 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had $224.9 million available under this common share repurchase program. 

In connection with the Merger, each Weingarten common share, issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger, was converted into 1.408 shares of newly issued shares of Kimco common stock, resulting in approximately 179.9 million common shares issued to effect the Merger. 

Senior Notes – 

During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company issued the following senior unsecured notes (dollars in millions): 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company’s supplemental indenture governing its senior notes contains the following covenants, all of which the Company is compliant with: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For a full description of the various indenture covenants refer to the Indenture dated September 1, 1993; the First Supplemental Indenture dated August 4, 1994; the Second Supplemental Indenture dated April 7, 1995; the Third Supplemental Indenture dated June 2, 2006; the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated April 26, 2007; the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 24, 2009; the Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 23, 2013; and the Seventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 24, 2014, each as filed with the SEC. See the Index to Exhibits included in this Form 10-K for specific filing information. 

In connection with the Merger, the Company assumed senior unsecured notes of $1.5 billion (including fair market value adjustment of $95.6 million), which have scheduled maturity dates ranging from October 2022 to August 2028 and accrue interest at rates ranging from 3.25% to 6.88% per annum. The senior unsecured notes assumed during the Merger have covenants that are similar to the Company’s existing debt covenants for its senior unsecured notes. Please refer to the Indenture dated May 1, 1995 filed with Weingarten’s Form S-3 to the Registration Statement, with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 1, 1995, First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 2, 2006 filed with Weingarten’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 2, 2006, Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 9, 2012 filed with Weingarten’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 9, 2012. See the Exhibits Index for specific filing information. 

In February 2022, the Company announced the early redemption of its $500.0 million 3.40% senior unsecured notes outstanding, which were scheduled to mature in November 2022. The Company plans to redeem these notes on March 2, 2022 and as a result, the Company will incur a prepayment charge of approximately $6.5 million. 

In addition, in February 2022, the Company issued $600.0 million in senior unsecured notes, which are scheduled to mature in April 2032 and accrue interest at a rate of 3.20% per annum. The net proceeds from this offering will be used primarily to fund the redemption of the Company’s $500.0 million 3.40% senior unsecured notes outstanding and general corporate purposes. 

Credit Facility – 

In February 2020, the Company obtained a new $2.0 billion Credit Facility with a group of banks, which replaced the Company’s existing $2.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility. The Credit Facility is scheduled to expire in March 2024, with two additional six-month options to extend the maturity date, at the Company’s discretion, to March 2025. The Credit Facility is a green credit facility tied to sustainability metric targets, as described in the agreement. The Company achieved such targets, which effectively reduced the rate on the Credit Facility by one basis point. The Credit Facility, which accrues interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 76.5 basis points (0.87% as of December 31, 2021), can be increased to $2.75 billion through an accordion feature. Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Facility, the Company, among other things, is subject to covenants requiring the maintenance of (i) maximum indebtedness ratios and (ii) minimum interest and fixed charge coverage ratios. As of December 31, 2021, the Credit Facility had no outstanding balance and appropriations for letters of credit of $1.9 million. 

Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Facility, the Company, among other things, is subject to maintenance of various covenants. The Company is currently in compliance with these covenants. The financial covenants for the Credit Facility are as follows: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For a full description of the Credit Facility’s covenants refer to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of February 27, 2020, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 28, 2020. See the Index to Exhibits included in this Form 10-K for specific filing information. 

 36    

 Table of Contents     

Mortgages Payable – 

During 2021, the Company (i) assumed $234.1 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt through the consolidation of nine operating properties, (ii) repaid $230.5 million of mortgage debt (including fair market value adjustment of $1.2 million) that encumbered 28 operating properties and (iii) deconsolidated $170.0 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt relating to six operating properties for which the Company no longer holds a controlling interest. 

In connection with the Merger, the Company assumed mortgage debt of $317.7 million (including fair market value adjustment of $11.0 million) that encumber 16 operating properties, which have scheduled maturity dates ranging from April 2022 to August 2038 and accrue interest at rates ranging from 3.50% to 6.95% per annum. 

In addition to the public equity and debt markets as capital sources, the Company may, from time to time, obtain mortgage financing on selected properties to partially fund the capital needs of its real estate under development projects. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had over 480 unencumbered property interests in its portfolio. 

COVID-19 – 

As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, uncertainty remains regarding the long-term economic impact it will have. As a result, the Company has focused on creating a strong liquidity position, including, but not limited to, maintaining availability under its Credit Facility, cash and cash equivalents on hand and having access to unencumbered property interests. 

The Company continues to monitor the impact of COVID-19 on the Company’s business, tenants and industry as a whole. The magnitude and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the Company’s operations and liquidity remains uncertain as this pandemic continues to evolve globally and within the United States. However, if the COVID-19 pandemic continues, such impacts could grow, become material and materially disrupt the Company’s business operations and materially adversely affect the Company’s liquidity. 

Dividends – 

In connection with its intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company expects to continue paying regular dividends to its stockholders. These dividends will be paid from operating cash flows. The Company’s Board of Directors will continue to evaluate the Company’s dividend policy on a quarterly basis as the Board of Directors monitors sources of capital and evaluates the impact of the economy and capital markets availability on operating fundamentals. Since cash used to pay dividends reduces amounts available for capital investment, the Company generally intends to maintain a dividend payout ratio which reserves such amounts as it considers necessary for the expansion and renovation of shopping centers in its portfolio, debt reduction, the acquisition of interests in new properties and other investments as suitable opportunities arise and such other factors as the Board of Directors considers appropriate. Cash dividends paid were $382.1 million, $379.9 million and $531.6 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019 respectively. 

Although the Company receives substantially all of its rental payments on a monthly basis, it generally intends to continue paying dividends quarterly. Amounts accumulated in advance of each quarterly distribution will be invested by the Company in short-term money market or other suitable instruments. The Company’s Board of Directors will continue to monitor the impact the COVID-19 pandemic has on the Company's financial performance and economic outlook. The Company’s objective is to establish a dividend level that maintains compliance with the Company’s REIT taxable income distribution requirements. On October 26, 2021, the Company’s Board of Directors declared quarterly dividends with respect to the Company’s classes of cumulative redeemable preferred shares (Classes L and M), which were paid on January 17, 2022, to shareholders of record on January 3, 2022. Additionally, on October 26, 2021, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.17 per common share, which was paid on December 23, 2021 to shareholders of record on December 9, 2021. 

On February 1, 2022, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.19 per common share, representing a 11.8% increase from the prior quarterly dividend, payable to shareholders of record on March 10, 2022, which is scheduled to be paid on March 24, 2022. In addition, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend with respect to the Company’s classes of cumulative redeemable preferred shares (Classes L and M) which are scheduled to be paid on April 15, 2022, to shareholders of record on April 1, 2022. 

 37    

 Table of Contents     

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments 

The Company has debt obligations relating to its Credit Facility (no outstanding balance as of December 31, 2021), unsecured senior notes and mortgages with maturities ranging from four months to 28 years. As of December 31, 2021, the Company’s consolidated total debt had a weighted average term to maturity of 8.5 years. In addition, the Company has non-cancelable leases pertaining to its shopping center portfolio. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had 42 consolidated shopping center properties that are subject to long-term ground leases where a third-party owns and has leased the underlying land to the Company to construct and/or operate a shopping center. Amounts due in 2022 in connection with these leases aggregate $12.7 million. The following table summarizes the Company’s consolidated debt maturities (excluding extension options, unamortized debt issuance costs of $57.3 million and fair market value of debt adjustments aggregating $91.8 million) and obligations under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2021: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (1) Maturities utilized do not reflect extenson options, which range from six months to one year. On February 15, 2022, the Company announced the redemption for its $500.0 million 3.40% senior unsecured notes outstanding, which mature in November 2022. The Company plans to redeem these notes on March 2, 2022 and as a result, the Company will incur a prepayment charge of approximately $6.5 million. In addition, in February 2022, the Company issued $600.0 million in senior unsecured notes, which are scheduled to mature in April 2032 and accrue interest at a rate of 3.20% per annum. The net proceeds from this offering will be used primarily to fund the redemption of the Company's $500.0 million 3.40% senior unsecured notes outstanding.   

   (2) For loans which have interest at floating rates, future interest expense was calculated using the rate as of December 31, 2021.  

   (3) For leases which have inflationary increases, future ground and office rent expense was calculated using the rent based upon initial lease payment.    

The Company has $805.1 million of consolidated unsecured debt and $115.9 million of consolidated secured debt scheduled to mature in 2022. The Company anticipates satisfying the remaining future maturities with operating cash flows, its Credit Facility or public debt offerings, if needed. 

The Company has issued letters of credit in connection with the completion and repayment guarantees, primarily on certain of the Company’s redevelopment projects and guaranty of payment related to the Company’s insurance program. At December 31, 2021, these letters of credit aggregated $44.5 million. 

In connection with the construction of its development/redevelopment projects and related infrastructure, certain public agencies require posting of performance and surety bonds to guarantee that the Company’s obligations are satisfied. These bonds expire upon the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had $12.7 million in performance and surety bonds outstanding. 

The Company has two investments that have investment funding commitments totaling $27.0 million, of which $4.3 million has been funded as of December 31, 2021. The Company’s remaining commitment to fund related to these investments is $22.7 million in total as of December 31, 2021. 

In connection with the Merger, the Company now provides a guaranty for the payment of any debt service shortfalls on Series A bonds issued by the Sheridan Redevelopment Agency which are tax increment revenue bonds issued in connection with a property owned by the Company in Sheridan, Colorado. These tax increment revenue bonds have a balance of $49.7 million outstanding at December 31, 2021. The bonds are to be repaid with incremental sales and property taxes and a public improvement fee ("PIF") to be assessed on current and future retail sales and, to the extent necessary, any amounts we may have to provide under a guaranty. The revenue generated from incremental sales, property taxes and PIF have satisfied the debt service requirements to date. The incremental taxes and PIF are to remain intact until the earlier of the payment of the bond liability in full or 2040. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures 

The Company has investments in various unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying structures. These joint ventures primarily operate shopping center properties. The properties owned by the joint ventures are primarily financed with individual non-recourse mortgage loans, however, the Company, on a selective basis, has obtained unsecured financing for certain joint ventures. As of December 31, 2021, the Company did not guarantee any joint venture unsecured debt. Non-recourse mortgage debt is generally defined as debt whereby the lenders’ sole recourse with respect to borrower defaults is limited to the value of the property collateralized by the mortgage. The lender generally does not have recourse against any other assets owned by the borrower or any of the constituent members of the borrower, except for certain specified exceptions listed in the particular loan documents (see Footnote 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K). 

Debt balances within the Company’s unconsolidated joint venture investments for which the Company held noncontrolling ownership interests at December 31, 2021, aggregated $1.6 billion. As of December 31, 2021, these loans had scheduled maturities ranging from four months to 9.5 years and bore interest at rates ranging from 1.30% to 6.38%. Approximately $109.3 million of the aggregate outstanding loan balance matures in 2022. These maturing loans are anticipated to be repaid with operating cash flows, debt refinancing, unsecured credit facilities, proceeds from sales of the respective entities, and partner capital contributions, as deemed appropriate (see Footnote 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K). 

Other Investments 

The Company has provided capital to owners and developers of real estate properties and loans through its Preferred Equity Program. As of December 31, 2021, the Company’s net investment under the Preferred Equity Program was $98.7 million relating to 39 properties, including 28 net leased properties, which are accounted for as direct financing leases. As of December 31, 2021, these preferred equity investment properties had non-recourse mortgage loans aggregating $237.4 million. These loans have scheduled maturities ranging from two months to 2.5 years and bear interest at rates ranging from 4.19% to 8.88%. Due to the Company’s preferred position in these investments, the Company’s share of each investment is subject to fluctuation and is dependent upon property cash flows. The Company’s maximum exposure to losses associated with its preferred equity investments is limited to its invested capital. 

 38    

 Table of Contents     

Funds From Operations 

FFO is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure utilized to evaluate the operating performance of real estate companies. NAREIT defines FFO as net income/(loss) available to the Company’s common shareholders computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding (i) depreciation and amortization related to real estate, (ii) gains or losses from sales of certain real estate assets, (iii) gains and losses from change in control, (iv) impairment write-downs of certain real estate assets and investments in entities when the impairment is directly attributable to decreases in the value of depreciable real estate held by the entity and (v) after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. The Company also made an election, per the NAREIT Funds From Operations White Paper-2018 Restatement, to exclude from its calculation of FFO (i) gains and losses on the sale of assets and impairments of assets incidental to its main business and (ii) mark-to-market changes in the value of its equity securities. As such, the Company does not include gains/impairments on land parcels, gains/losses (realized or unrealized) from marketable securities, allowance for credit losses on mortgage receivables or gains/impairments on preferred equity participations in NAREIT defined FFO. 

The Company presents FFO available to the Company’s common shareholders as it considers it an important supplemental measure of our operating performance and believes it is frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of REITs, many of which present FFO available to the Company’s common shareholders when reporting results. Comparison of our presentation of FFO available to the Company’s common shareholders to similarly titled measures for other REITs may not necessarily be meaningful due to possible differences in the application of the NAREIT definition used by such REITs. 

FFO is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure of real estate companies’ operating performances, which does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and, therefore, should not be considered an alternative for net income or cash flows from operations as a measure of liquidity. 

The Company’s reconciliation of net income available to the Company’s common shareholders to FFO available to the Company’s common shareholders is reflected in the table below (in thousands, except per share data). 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (1)  Related to gains, impairment and depreciation on properties, where applicable.   

   (2) Reflects the potential impact if certain units were converted to common stock at the beginning of the period, which would have a dilutive effect on FFO available to the Company’s common shareholders. FFO available to the Company’s common shareholders would be increased by $856 and $92 for the three months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and $1,053 and $309 for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The effect of other certain convertible units would have an anti-dilutive effect upon the calculation of FFO available to the Company’s common shareholders per share. Accordingly, the impact of such conversion has not been included in the determination of diluted earnings per share calculations.  

   (3) Includes Merger charges of $50.2 million recognized during the year ended December 31, 2021, in connection with the Merger. In addition the three months and year ended December 31, 2021, includes a pension valuation adjustment of $3.0 million of income included in Other income, net on the Company's Consolidated Statement of Income.    

Same Property Net Operating Income 

Same property NOI is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure of real estate companies’ operating performance and should not be considered an alternative to net income in accordance with GAAP or cash flows from operations as a measure of liquidity. The Company considers Same property NOI as an important operating performance measure because it is frequently used by securities analysts and investors to measure only the net operating income of properties that have been owned by the Company for the entire current and prior year reporting periods. It excludes properties under redevelopment, development and pending stabilization; properties are deemed stabilized at the earlier of (i) reaching 90% leased or (ii) one year following a project’s inclusion in operating real estate. Same property NOI assists in eliminating disparities in net income due to the development, acquisition or disposition of properties during the particular period presented, and thus provides a more consistent performance measure for the comparison of the Company's properties. 

 39    

 Table of Contents     

For the three months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company included Same property NOI from the Weingarten properties acquired through the Merger, as the Company owned these properties for the full three months ended December 31, 2021. The amount of the adjustment relating to Weingarten same property NOI for the three months ended December 31, 2020, included in the table below, represents the Same property NOI from Weingarten properties prior to the Merger, which is not included in the Company's Net income available to the Company’s common shareholders. Same property NOI from properties acquired through the Merger was excluded for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, as the Company did not own these properties for the full year ended December 31, 2021. 

Same property NOI is calculated using revenues from rental properties (excluding straight-line rent adjustments, lease termination fees, TIFs and amortization of above/below-market rents) less charges for bad debt, operating and maintenance expense, real estate taxes and rent expense plus the Company’s proportionate share of Same property NOI from unconsolidated real estate joint ventures, calculated on the same basis. The Company’s method of calculating Same property NOI available to the Company’s common shareholders may differ from methods used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs. 

The following is a reconciliation of Net income available to the Company’s common shareholders to Same property NOI (in thousands): 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    (1)   Same property NOI from properties acquired through the Merger are included in the three months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 but excluded for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.     

    (2)   Amounts for the three months ended December 31, 2020, represent the Same property NOIs from Weingarten properties, not included in the Company's Net income available to the Company's common shareholders.     

Same property NOI increased by $35.7 million, or 12.9%, for the three months ended December 31, 2021, as compared to the corresponding period in 2020. This increase is primarily the result of (i) a decrease in credit losses of $15.7 million due to increased collections, (ii) an increase in revenues from rental properties of $11.4 million primarily related to a decrease in tenant rent abatements and vacancies as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic during 2020, as compared to 2021, and (iii) an increase of $8.6 million from properties acquired through the Merger. 

Same property NOI increased by $69.6 million, or 8.8%, for the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to the corresponding period in 2020. This increase is primarily the result of (i) a decrease in credit losses of $92.3 million due to increased collections, partially offset by (ii) a decrease in revenues from rental properties of $18.8 million primarily related to a decrease in tenant rent abatements and vacancies as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and (iii) an increase in non-recoverable operating expenses of $3.9 million. 

Effects of Inflation 

Many of the Company's long-term leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants' gross sales above pre-determined thresholds, which generally increase as prices rise, and/or as a result of escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses often include increases based upon changes in the consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of the Company's leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company to seek to increase rents to market rates upon renewal. Most of the Company's leases include escalation clauses or require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby reducing the Company's exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation.  

New Accounting Pronouncements 

See Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. 

 40    

 Table of Contents     

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk