ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to “Level 3 Communications, Inc.,” "Level 3," “we,” “us,” "its," the “Company” and “our” refer to Level 3 Parent, LLC and its consolidated subsidiaries. References to "Lumen Technologies" or "Lumen" refer to our ultimate parent company, Lumen Technologies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

All references to "Notes" in this Item 7 of Part II refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this annual report.

Certain statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. See "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" appearing at the beginning of this report and "Risk Factors" set forth or referenced in Item 1A of Part I of this report or other of our filings with the SEC for a discussion of certain factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our anticipated results or otherwise impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects.

Overview

We are an international facilities-based technology and communications company engaged in providing a broad array of integrated communication services to our business customers.

On July 25, 2021, affiliates of ours entered into a definitive agreement to divest our Latin American business to an affiliate of a fund advised by Stonepeak Partners LP in exchange for $2.7 billion cash, subject to certain working capital and other purchase price adjustments and related transaction expenses (estimated to be approximately $50 million). For more information, see (i) Note 2—Planned Divestiture of the Latin American Business to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report and (ii) the risk factors included in Item 1A of Part I of this report.

Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic

In response to the safety and economic challenges arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic and in a continued attempt to mitigate the negative impact on our stakeholders, we have taken a variety of steps to ensure the availability of our network infrastructure, to promote the safety of our employees and customers, to enable us to continue to adapt and provide our products and services worldwide to our customers, and to strengthen our communities. As vaccination rates increase, we expect to continue revising our responses to the pandemic or take additional steps necessary to adjust to changed circumstances. To date, these steps have included:

•establishing new protocols for the safety of our on-site technicians and customers, including our "Safe Connections" program;

•adopting a rigorous employee work-from-home policy and substantially restricting non-essential business travel, each of which remains in place;

•continuously monitoring our network to enhance its ability to respond to changes in usage patterns;

•donating products or services in several of our communities to enhance their abilities to provide necessary support services; and 

28

•taking steps to maintain our internal controls and the security of our systems and data in a remote work environment.

As the pandemic continues and vaccination rates increase, we expect to revise our responses or take additional steps to adjust to changed circumstances.

Social distancing, business and school closures, travel restrictions, and other actions taken in response to the pandemic have impacted us, our customers and our business since March 2020. In particular, beginning in the second half of 2020 and continuing into early 2022, we have rationalized our leased footprint and ceased using 13 leased property locations that were underutilized due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We determined that we no longer needed the leased space and, due to the limited remaining term on the contracts, concluded that we had neither the intent nor ability to sublease the properties. As a result, we incurred accelerated lease costs of approximately $15 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. In conjunction with our plans to continue to reduce costs, we expect to continue our real estate rationalization efforts and incur additional costs during 2022. Additionally, as discussed further elsewhere herein, the pandemic resulted in (i) increases in certain revenue streams and decreases in others, (ii) increases in allowances for credit losses through the end of 2020, (iii) increases in overtime expenses, (iv) operational challenges resulting from shortages of semiconductors and certain other supplies that we use in our business, and (v) delays in our cost transformation initiatives. We have also experienced delayed decision-making by certain of our customers. Thus far, these changes have not materially impacted our financial performance or financial position. However, we continue to monitor global disruptions and work with our vendors to mitigate supply chain risks.

We intend to reopen our offices in 2022 under a "hybrid" working environment, which permits some of our employees the flexibility to work remotely at least some of the time, for the foreseeable future.

For additional information on the impacts of the pandemic, see Item 1A of this report.

Trends Impacting Our Operations

Our consolidated operations have been, and are expected to continue to be, impacted by the following company-wide trends:

•Customers' demand for products and services and competitive pressures will require that we continue to invest in new technologies and automated processes to improve our customer experience and reduce our operating expenses.

•The increasingly digital environment and the growth in online video requires robust, scalable network services. We are continuing to enhance our product capabilities and simplify our product portfolio based on demand and profitability to enable our customers to have access to greater bandwidth.

•Businesses continue to adopt distributed, global operating models. We are expanding and densifying our fiber network, connecting more buildings to our network to generate revenue opportunities and reduce our costs associated with leasing networks from other carriers.

•Industry consolidation, coupled with changes in regulation, technology and customer preferences, are significantly reducing demand for some of our products and services or creating price compression, while other advances, such as the need for lower latency provided by Edge computing or the implementation of 5G networks, are expected to create opportunities.

•The operating margins of several of our newer, more technologically advanced services are lower than the operating margins on our traditional, on-net wireline services.

Results of Operations

Our analysis presented below is organized to provide the information we believe will be useful for understanding the relevant trends affecting our business. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 8 of this report.

29

The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Revenue

Since the first quarter of 2021, we have categorized our products and services and related revenue among the following categories:

•Compute and Application Services, which include our Edge Cloud services, IT solutions, Unified Communications and Collaboration ("UC&C"), data center, content delivery network ("CDN") and Managed Security services;

•IP and Data Services, which include Ethernet, IP, and VPN data networks, including software-defined wide area networks ("SD WAN") based services, Dynamic Connections and Hyper WAN;

•Fiber Infrastructure Services, which include dark fiber, optical services and equipment;

•Voice and Other, which include Time Division Multiplexing ("TDM") voice, private line and other legacy services; and

•Affiliate Services, which include communications services provided to our affiliates that we also provide to our external customers.

From time to time, we may change the categorization of our products and services.

For more information, see "Products and Services" in Item I of Part I of this report.

The following table summarizes our consolidated operating revenue recorded under our above-described revenue categories:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

30

Our total operating revenue increased by $19 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to increases in our managed security, IP, wavelength, dark fiber, and collaboration services, which were partially offset by decreases in voice and other, VPN data networks and Ethernet services.

Operating Expenses

Our current definitions of operating expenses are as follows:

•Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) are expenses incurred in providing products and services to our customers. These expenses include: employee-related expenses directly attributable to operating and maintaining our network (such as salaries, wages, benefits and professional fees); facilities expenses (which includes third-party telecommunications expenses we incur for using other carriers' networks to provide services to our customers); rents and utilities expenses; equipment sales expenses; and other expenses directly related to our operations; and

•Selling, general and administrative expenses are corporate overhead and other operating expenses. These expenses include: employee-related expenses (such as salaries, wages, internal commissions, benefits and professional fees) directly attributable to selling products or services and employee-related expenses for administrative functions; marketing and advertising; property and other operating taxes and fees; external commissions; legal expenses associated with general matters; bad debt expense; and other selling, general and administrative expenses.

These expense classifications may not be comparable to those of other companies.

The following table summarizes our consolidated operating expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of Services and Products (Exclusive of depreciation and amortization)

Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) increased by $39 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to higher customer premise equipment costs from higher sales, higher network expenses, and accelerated lease costs as part of our real estate rationalization efforts. These increases were partially offset by lower employee-related expenses resulting from lower headcount and lower facility costs due to lower voice usage.

31

Selling, General and Administrative

Selling, general and administrative decreased by $45 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to a reduction in salaries and wages and employee-related benefits, lower bad debt expense and lower insurance costs. These reductions were partially offset by lower gain on sale of assets in 2021 compared to 2020.

Operating Expenses - Affiliates

Operating expenses - affiliates increased by $129 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to higher affiliate lease expense for circuits and colocation facilities. The increase was also partially due to transferring certain employees to other affiliates, which results in expenses being allocated back to us through operating expenses - affiliates rather than included in selling, general and administrative expenses.

Depreciation and Amortization 

The following tables provide detail regarding depreciation and amortization expense: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Depreciation expense increased by $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to higher depreciation expense of $57 million associated with net growth in depreciable assets and an increase of $8 million due to foreign currency exchange rate impacts. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $47 million due to discontinuing the depreciation of the tangible assets reclassified as held for sale of our Latin American business upon entering into our divestiture agreement.

Amortization expense increased by $5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 due to an increase of $6 million associated with the net growth in amortizable assets and an increase of $9 million due to the accelerated amortization of decommissioned applications. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $13 million due to discontinuing the amortization of intangible assets reclassified as held for sale of our Latin American business upon entering into our divestiture agreement.

32

Other Consolidated Results

The following table summarizes other expense, net and income tax expense: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest Income - Affiliate

Interest income - affiliate increased by $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to an increase in the average interest rate associated with our note receivable - affiliate balance.

Interest Expense

Interest expense decreased by $32 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to a decrease in the average interest rate from 4.08% to 3.61%.

Other Income, Net

 The following table summarizes our total other income, net:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

nm Percentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful.

Income Tax Expense

For the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, our effective income tax rate was 25.2% and 25.3%, respectively. See Note 13—Income Taxes and "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Income Taxes" below for additional information.

33

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. We have identified certain policies and estimates as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our past or present results of operations related to (i) goodwill, customer relationships and other intangible assets; (ii) loss contingencies and litigation reserves; (iii) affiliate transactions; and (iv) income taxes. These policies and estimates are considered critical because they had a material impact, or they have the potential to have a material impact, on our consolidated financial statements and because they require us to make significant judgments, assumptions or estimates. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions made when accounting for the items described below were reasonable, based on information available at the time they were made. However, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates.

Goodwill, Customer Relationships and Other Intangible Assets

Intangible assets arising from business combinations, such as goodwill, customer relationships, capitalized software, trademarks and tradenames, are initially recorded at estimated fair value. We amortize customer relationships primarily over an estimated life of 7 to 14 years, using the straight-line method. We amortize capitalized software using the straight-line method primarily over estimated lives ranging up to 7 years. We amortize our other intangible assets over an estimated life of 5 years. We annually review the estimated lives and methods used to amortize our other intangible assets. The amount of future amortization expense may differ materially from current amounts, depending on the results of our annual reviews.

Our goodwill was derived from Lumen's acquisition of us where the purchase price exceeded the fair value of the net assets acquired.

We assess our goodwill for impairment annually, or, under certain circumstances, more frequently, such as when events or changes in circumstances indicate there may be impairment. We are required to write down the value of goodwill only when our assessment determines the carrying value of equity of our reporting unit exceeds its fair value. Our annual impairment assessment date for goodwill is October 31, at which date we assess goodwill at our reporting unit. In reviewing the criteria for reporting units, we have determined that we are one reporting unit.

At October 31, 2021 and 2020, we estimated the fair value of equity by considering both a market approach and a discounted cash flow method. The market approach method includes the use of comparable multiples of publicly traded companies whose services are comparable to ours. The discounted cash flow method is based on the present value of projected cash flows and a terminal value equal to the present value of all normalized cash flows after the projection period. As of October 31, 2021 and 2020, based on our assessments performed, the estimated fair value of our equity exceeded our carrying value of equity by approximately 14% and 17%, respectively. We concluded that the goodwill was not impaired as of October 31, 2021 and 2020.

Our reclassification of held for sale assets, as described in Note 2—Planned Divestiture of the Latin American Business, was considered an event or change in circumstance which required an assessment of our goodwill for impairment as of July 31, 2021. We performed a pre-reclassification goodwill impairment test to determine whether there was an impairment prior to the reclassification and to determine the July 31, 2021 fair values to be utilized for goodwill allocation to the Latin American business to be reclassified as assets held for sale. We also performed a post-reclassification goodwill impairment test using our estimated post-divestiture cash flows and carrying value of equity to evaluate whether the fair value of our reporting unit that will remain following the divestiture exceeds the carrying value of the equity of the reporting unit after reclassification of assets held for sale. Based on our assessments performed, we concluded it was more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting unit exceeded the carrying value of equity of our reporting unit at July 31, 2021. Therefore, we concluded no impairment existed as of our assessment date.

34

Lumen's stock price declined significantly in the first quarter of 2019 causing us to evaluate our goodwill for impairment as of March 31, 2019. Because Lumen's low stock price indicated the carrying value of our reporting unit was more likely than not in excess of its fair value, we estimated the fair value of our operations using only the market approach in the quarter ended March 31, 2019. Applying this approach, we utilized company comparisons and analyst reports within the telecommunications industry, which have historically supported a range of fair values of annualized revenue and EBITDA multiples between 2.1x and 4.9x and 4.9x and 9.8x, respectively. We selected a revenue and EBITDA multiple within this range. As of March 31, 2019, based on our assessments performed as described above, we concluded that the estimated fair value of equity was less than our carrying value of equity as of the date of our triggering event during the first quarter. As a result, we recorded a non-cash, non-tax-deductible goodwill impairment charge of $3.7 billion in the quarter ended March 31, 2019.

Our fair value estimates for evaluating goodwill incorporated significant judgements and assumptions including forecast revenues and expenses, cost of capital, and control premiums. In developing market multiples, we also considered observed trends of our industry participants and other qualitative factors that required significant judgement. Alternative estimates, judgements, and interpretations of these factors could have resulted in different conclusions regarding the need for an impairment charge. We believe the estimates, judgments, assumptions and allocation methods used by us are reasonable, but changes in any of them can significantly affect whether we must incur impairment charges, as well as the size of such charges. 

See Note 3—Goodwill, Customer Relationships and Other Intangible Assets for additional information.

Loss Contingencies and Litigation Reserves

We are involved in several potentially material legal proceedings, as described in more detail in Note 16—Commitments, Contingencies and Other Items. On a quarterly basis, we assess potential losses in relation to these and other pending or threatened tax and legal matters. For matters not related to income taxes, if a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we recognize an expense for the estimated loss. To the extent these estimates are more or less than the actual liability resulting from the resolution of these matters, our earnings will be increased or decreased accordingly. If the differences are material, our consolidated financial statements could be materially impacted.

For matters related to income taxes, if we determine in our judgment that the impact of an uncertain tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon audit by the relevant taxing authority, then we recognize in our financial statements a benefit for the largest amount that is more likely than not to be sustained. No portion of an uncertain tax position will be recognized if we determine in our judgment that the position has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. Though the validity of any tax position is a matter of tax law, the body of statutory, regulatory and interpretive guidance on the application of the law is complex and often ambiguous. Because of this, whether a tax position will ultimately be sustained may be uncertain.

Affiliate Transactions 

We provide to and receive from Lumen Technologies and its subsidiaries ("our affiliates") various communications and other services. We recognize intercompany charges at the amounts billed to us by our affiliates and we recognize intercompany revenue for services we bill to our affiliates. 

Because of the significance of the services we provide to our affiliates and our other affiliate transactions, and the services our affiliates provide to us, the results of operations, financial position and cash flows presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations, financial position and cash flows we would have achieved had we operated as a stand-alone entity during the periods presented. See Note 15—Affiliate Transactions for additional information.

35

Income Taxes 

We are included in the consolidated federal income tax return of Lumen Technologies. Under Lumen's tax allocation policy, Lumen Technologies treats our consolidated results as if we were a separate taxpayer. The policy requires us to pay our tax liabilities to Lumen Technologies in cash based upon our separate return taxable income. We are also included in the combined state tax returns filed by Lumen Technologies and the same payment and allocation policy applies.

Our provision for income taxes includes amounts for tax consequences deferred to future periods. We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflecting future tax consequences attributable to (i) tax credit carryforwards (ii) differences between the financial statement carrying value of assets and liabilities and the tax basis of those assets and liabilities, and (iii) tax NOLs. Deferred taxes are computed using enacted tax rates expected to apply in the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. The effect on deferred income tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rate is recognized in earnings in the period that includes the enactment date.

The measurement of deferred taxes often involves the exercise of considerable judgment related to the realization of tax basis. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our assessment that tax positions taken in filed tax returns and the resulting tax basis, are more likely than not to be sustained if they are audited by taxing authorities. Assessing tax rates that we expect to apply and determining the years when the temporary differences are expected to affect taxable income requires judgment about the future apportionment of our income among the states in which we operate. Any changes in our practices or judgments involved in the measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations.

In connection with recording deferred income tax assets and liabilities, we establish valuation allowances when necessary to reduce deferred income tax assets to amounts that we believe are more likely than not to be realized. We evaluate our deferred tax assets quarterly to determine whether adjustments to our valuation allowance are appropriate in light of changes in facts or circumstances, such as changes in tax law, interactions with taxing authorities and developments in case law. In making this evaluation, we rely on our recent history of pre-tax earnings. We also rely on our forecasts of future earnings and the nature and timing of future deductions and benefits represented by the deferred tax assets, all of which involve the exercise of significant judgment. As of December 31, 2021, we established a valuation allowance of $1.1 billion primarily related to state and foreign NOLs, as it is more likely than not that these NOLs will expire unused. If forecasts of future earnings and the nature and estimated timing of future deductions and benefits change in the future, we may determine that a valuation allowance for certain deferred tax assets is appropriate, which could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. See Note 13—Income Taxes for additional information.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

We are a wholly-owned subsidiary of Lumen Technologies, Inc. As such, factors relating to, or affecting, Lumen's liquidity and capital resources could have material impacts on us, including impacts on our credit ratings, our access to capital markets and changes in the financial market's perception of us.

As of December 31, 2021, we have $1.5 billion of outstanding notes receivable-affiliate under a revolving credit facility that we extended to Lumen Technologies. The principal amount outstanding under such facility currently bears interest at 4.250% per annum, subject to certain adjustments as set forth in the facility. This principal amount is payable upon demand by us and prepayable by Lumen Technologies at any time, but no later than October 15, 2025, which maturity date may be extended for two additional one-year periods. The facility has covenants, including a maximum total leverage ratio, and is subject to other limitations. A significant component of our liquidity is dependent upon Lumen's ability to repay its obligation to us. 

As of December 31, 2021, we held cash and cash equivalents, including cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale, of $185 million, of which $64 million were held in foreign bank accounts for funding our foreign operations. Due to various factors, our access to foreign cash is generally more restricted than our access to domestic cash.

36

We anticipate that any future liquidity needs will be met through (i) our cash provided by operating activities, (ii) amounts due to us from Lumen Technologies, (iii) proceeds from the pending divestiture of our Latin American business, (iv) our ability to refinance our debt obligations and (v) capital contributions, advances or loans from Lumen Technologies or its affiliates if and to the extent they have available funds or access to funds that they are willing and able to contribute, advance or loan. 

For additional information, see "Risk Factors—Financial Risks" in Item 1A of Part I of this report.

Impact of Planned Divestiture of our Latin American Business

As discussed in Note 2—Planned Divestiture of the Latin American Business to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part 1 of this report, we executed a definitive agreement to divest our Latin American business on July 25, 2021. As further described elsewhere herein, this transaction is expected to provide us with a substantial amount of cash proceeds upon closing, but would thereafter reduce our recurring cash from operating activities that we plan to use to fund our future cash requirements.

Debt and Other Financing Arrangements 

Our long-term debt (including current maturities and finance leases) outstanding totaled $10.4 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. 

Subject to market conditions, from time to time we expect to continue to issue term debt or senior notes to refinance our maturing debt. The availability, interest rate and other terms of any new borrowings will be impacted by the ratings assigned us by the three major credit rating agencies, among other factors. As of the date of this report, the credit ratings for the senior secured and unsecured debt of Level 3 Financing, Inc. were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our credit ratings are reviewed and adjusted from time to time by the rating agencies. Any future changes in the senior unsecured or secured debt ratings of Level 3 Financing, Inc. could impact our access to debt capital or adjust our borrowing costs. See "Risk Factors—Financial Risks" in Item 1A of Part I of this report.

See Note 7—Long-Term Debt for additional information about our long-term debt and letters of credit.

Letters of Credit

It is customary for us to use various financial instruments in the normal course of business. These instruments include letters of credit. Letters of credit are conditional commitments issued on our behalf in accordance with specified terms and conditions. As of December 31, 2021, we had outstanding letters of credit or other similar obligations of approximately $9 million, of which $5 million was collateralized by restricted cash.

37

Future Contractual Obligations

Our estimated future obligations as of December 31, 2021 include both current and long term obligations. For our long-term debt as noted in Note 7—Long-Term Debt, we have a current obligation of $26 million and a long-term obligation of $10.4 billion. Under our operating leases as noted in Note 5—Leases, we have a current obligation of $350 million and a long-term obligation of $1.2 billion. As noted in Note 16—Commitments, Contingencies and Other Items, we have a current obligation related to right-of-way agreements and purchase commitments of $289 million and a long-term obligation of $1.1 billion. Additionally, we have a current obligation for asset retirement obligation of $15 million and a long-term obligation of $109 million.

Capital Expenditures

We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis in order to enhance and modernize our networks, compete effectively in our markets and expand our service offerings. These amounts include liabilities that have been reclassified as liabilities held for sale on our consolidated balance sheet. Lumen Technologies and we evaluate capital expenditure projects based on a variety of factors, including expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted impact on revenue growth, productivity, expenses, service levels and customer retention) and the expected return on investment. The amount of Lumen's consolidated capital investment is influenced by, among other things, demand for Lumen's services and products, cash flow generated by operating activities and cash required for other purposes. For more information on our capital spending, see "Business" and "Risk Factors" in Items 1 and 1A, respectively, of Part I of this report.

Distributions

From time to time we make distributions to our controlling parent company, which reduce our capital resources for debt repayments and other purposes. For additional information, see our consolidated statements of member’s equity and consolidated statements of cash flows.

Historical Information 

The following table summarizes our consolidated cash flow activities: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $714 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to a decrease in the accounts payable - affiliates balance due to repayments to our parent company, which was partially offset by changes in other non-current assets and liabilities. Cash provided by operating activities is subject to variability period over period as a result of timing, including the collection of receivables and payments of interest, accounts payable, and bonuses.

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $7 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to a decrease in capital expenditures, which was partially offset by an decrease in proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and a decrease in collections on notes receivable - affiliates.

38

Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $826 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to a decrease in payments of long-term debt and a decrease in distributions, which was partially offset by a decrease in net proceeds from issuance of long-term debt.

Other Matters

We are subject to various legal proceedings and other contingent liabilities that individually or in the aggregate could materially affect our financial condition, future results of operations or cash flows. See Note 16—Commitments, Contingencies and Other Items for additional information.

Lumen Technologies is involved in several legal proceedings to which we are not a party that, if resolved against it, could have a material adverse effect on its business and financial condition. As a wholly owned subsidiary of Lumen Technologies, our business and financial condition could be similarly affected. You can find descriptions of these legal proceedings in Lumen's quarterly and annual reports filed with the SEC. Because we are not a party to any of the matters, we have not accrued any liabilities for these matters.

The Biden Administration has proposed several changes to current programs and laws that could impact us, including proposals designed to increase broadband access, increase competition among broadband providers, lower broadband costs and re-adopt "net neutrality" rules similar to those adopted under the Obama Administration. In November 2021, the U.S. Congress enacted legislation that appropriated $65 billion to improve broadband affordability and access, primarily through federally-funded state grants. As of the date of this report, the U.S. Department of Commerce is still developing guidance regarding these grants, so it is premature to speculate on the potential impact of this legislation on us.

Summarized Financial Information

Level 3 Financing, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, has registered two series of currently outstanding Senior Notes that are fully and unconditionally and jointly and severally guaranteed on an unsubordinated unsecured basis by Level 3 Parent, LLC and Level 3 Communications, LLC. Level 3 Financing, Inc., Level 3 Parent, LLC and Level 3 Communications, LLC are collectively referred to as the “Obligor Group.”

In conjunction with the registration of those Level 3 Financing, Inc. Senior Notes under the Securities Act of 1933, we have presented below the accompanying summarized financial information pursuant to SEC Regulation S-X Rule 13-01 "Guarantors and issuers of guaranteed securities registered or being registered."

The summarized financial information set forth below excludes subsidiaries that are not within the Obligor Group and presents transactions between the Obligor Group and the subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Senior Notes (the “Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries”). Investment in, and equity in earnings of subsidiaries have been excluded from the summarized financial information.

The following table presents summarized financial information specified in Rule 1-02(bb)(1) of Regulation S-X for the year ended December 31, 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

39

The following tables present summarized financial information reflected in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Market Risk

As of December 31, 2021, we were exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on our variable rate long-term debt obligations.

As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $10.1 billion (excluding unamortized premiums, net, unamortized debt issuance costs and finance leases) of long-term debt outstanding, 69% of which bears interest at fixed rates and is therefore not exposed to interest rate risk. We also held approximately $3.1 billion of floating rate debt exposed to changes in the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR). A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in LIBOR relative to this debt would decrease our annual pre-tax earnings by approximately $31 million.

By operating internationally, we are exposed to the risk of fluctuations in the foreign currencies used by our international subsidiaries, including the British Pound, the Euro, the Brazilian Real and the Argentinian Peso. Although the percentages of our consolidated revenue and costs that are denominated in these currencies are immaterial, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely impacted by volatility in exchange rates or an increase in the number of foreign currency transactions.

Certain shortcomings are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the computation of exposures to market risks. Actual values may differ materially from those presented above if market conditions vary from the assumptions used in the analyses performed. These analyses only incorporate the risk exposures that existed as of December 31, 2021.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK