PART I

Item 1.Business.

Overview

We are a global business consisting of multiple wholly owned subsidiaries that develop, manufacture, market and distribute specialty pharmaceutical products and therapies. Areas of focus include autoimmune and rare diseases in specialty areas like neurology, rheumatology, nephrology, pulmonology, ophthalmology and oncology; immunotherapy and neonatal respiratory critical care therapies; analgesics; cultured skin substitutes and gastrointestinal products.

We operate our business in two reportable segments, which are further described below:

•Specialty Brands includes innovative specialty pharmaceutical brands; and

•Specialty Generics includes niche specialty generic drugs and active pharmaceutical ingredients ("API(s)").

We continue to pursue our ongoing transformation to become an innovation-driven biopharmaceutical company focused on improving outcomes for underserved patients with severe and critical conditions. For further information on our products, refer to "Our Businesses and Products" within this Item 1. Business.

Our principal executive offices are located at College Business & Technology Park, Cruiserath, Blanchardstown, Dublin 15, Ireland, where our Specialty Brands global external manufacturing operations are also located. In addition, we have other locations in the United States ("U.S."), most notably our corporate shared services office in Hazelwood, Missouri, our Specialty Brands commercial headquarters in Hampton, New Jersey, and our Specialty Generics headquarters and technical development center in Webster Groves, Missouri.

Voluntary Filing Under Chapter 11 and Going Concern

On October 12, 2020, Mallinckrodt plc and certain of its subsidiaries voluntarily initiated proceedings (the "Chapter 11 Cases") under chapter 11 of title 11 ("Chapter 11") of the United States Code (the "Bankruptcy Code") to modify our capital structure, including restructuring portions of our debt, and to resolve potential legal liabilities, including but not limited to a proposed resolution of all opioid-related claims against us (the "Amended Proposed Opioid-Related Litigation Settlement") and a proposed resolution of various Acthar® Gel (repository corticotropin injection) ("Acthar Gel")-related matters (the "Proposed Acthar Gel-Related Settlement"), including the Medicaid lawsuit with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS"), an associated False Claims Act ("FCA") lawsuit in Boston and an Eastern District of Pennsylvania ("EDPA") FCA lawsuit relating to Acthar Gel's previous owner's interactions with an independent charitable foundation. The entities that filed the Chapter 11 Cases include Mallinckrodt plc, substantially all of our U.S. subsidiaries, including certain subsidiaries of Mallinckrodt plc operating the Specialty Generics business (the "Specialty Generics Subsidiaries") and the Specialty Brands business (the "Specialty Brands Subsidiaries"), and certain of our international subsidiaries (together with Mallinckrodt plc, Specialty Generics Subsidiaries and Specialty Brands Subsidiaries, the "Debtors"). In connection with the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases, we entered into a restructuring support agreement (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, "Restructuring Support Agreement" or "RSA") as part of a prearranged plan of reorganization. Subsequent to the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases, Chapter 11 proceedings commenced by a limited subset of the Debtors have been recognized and given effect in Canada, and separately Mallinckrodt plc has commenced an examinership process with the High Court of Ireland. The references to the Chapter 11 Cases included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K shall include, where applicable, such proceedings in Canada and Ireland. Refer to Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included within Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the voluntary petitions for reorganization, the RSA and agreements in principle subsequently memorialized in our Chapter 11 plan of reorganization.

Substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern exists in light of our Chapter 11 Cases. Our ability to continue as a going concern is contingent upon, among other things, our ability to, subject to the approval by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the "Bankruptcy Court"), implement a plan of reorganization, emerge from the Chapter 11 proceedings and generate sufficient liquidity following the reorganization to meet our obligations, most notably our opioid and Acthar Gel-related settlements and restructured debt obligations, and operating needs.

Although management believes that our reorganization through the Chapter 11 proceedings will appropriately position us upon emergence, the commencement of these proceedings constituted an event of default under certain of our debt agreements, enforcement of any remedies in respect of which is automatically stayed as a result of the Chapter 11 proceedings. There are a number of risks and uncertainties associated with our bankruptcy, including, among others that: (a) our prearranged plan of reorganization may never become effective, (b) the RSA may be terminated by one or more of the parties thereto, (c) the Bankruptcy Court may grant or deny 

4

motions in a manner that is adverse to Mallinckrodt plc and its subsidiaries, and (d) the Chapter 11 Cases may be converted into cases under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code.

Although the Bankruptcy Court entered an order (the "Confirmation Order") confirming the fourth amended plan of reorganization (with technical modifications) proposed by the Debtors (the "Plan"), consummation of such plan of reorganization and the transactions contemplated thereby and emergence from the Chapter 11 proceedings remains subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, including completion of the Canadian and Irish proceedings noted above. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the Plan or transactions contemplated thereby will be consummated. As a result, we have concluded that management's plans at this stage do not alleviate substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.

Information about the Chapter 11 Cases, including the case docket, is publicly available at https://restructuring.primeclerk.com/Mallinckrodt/.

Fiscal Year

We report our results based on a "52-53 week" year ending on the last Friday of December. Fiscal 2021 consisted of 53 weeks and fiscal 2020 and 2019 each consisted of 52 weeks. 

Our Businesses and Products

We manage our business in two reportable segments: Specialty Brands and Specialty Generics. Management measures and evaluates our operating segments based on segment net sales and operating income. Information regarding the product portfolios and business strategies of these segments is included in the following discussion. 

Specialty Brands

Our business markets branded pharmaceutical products for autoimmune and rare diseases in the specialty areas of neurology, rheumatology, nephrology, pulmonology, ophthalmology and oncology; immunotherapy and neonatal respiratory critical care therapies; analgesics; cultured skin substitutes and gastrointestinal products. Our diversified, in-line portfolio of both marketed and development products is focused on patients with significant unmet medical needs.

Our long-term strategy is to increase patient access and appropriate utilization of our existing products; develop innovative new therapies and next-generation devices for our products; advance pipeline products and bring them to market; and selectively acquire or license products that are strategically aligned with our product portfolio to expand the size and profitability of our Specialty Brands segment. 

We promote our branded products directly to physicians in their offices, hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers (including neurologists, rheumatologists, nephrologists, pulmonologists, ophthalmologists, oncologists, neonatologists, surgeons and pharmacy directors) with our own direct sales force of almost 350 sales representatives as of December 31, 2021. These products are purchased by independent wholesale drug distributors, specialty pharmaceutical distributors, retail pharmacy chains and hospital procurement departments, among others, and are eventually dispensed by prescription to patients. We also contract directly with payer organizations to ensure reimbursement for our products to patients that are prescribed our products by their physicians. 

The following is a description of select products in our product portfolio:

•Acthar Gel is a complex mixture of peptides approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") for use in 19 indications. The product currently generates substantially all of its net sales from 11 of the on-label indications, including adjunctive therapy for short-term administration for an acute episode or exacerbation in rheumatoid arthritis ("RA"), including juvenile RA; monotherapy for the treatment of infantile spasms in infants and children under two years of age; treatment during an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of systemic lupus erythematosus; treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis ("MS") in adults; including a diuresis or a remission of proteinuria in nephrotic syndrome ("NS") without uremia of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus; treatment during an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of systemic dermatomyositis (polymyositis); treatment of symptomatic sarcoidosis; and treatment of severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye and its adnexa including keratitis and uveitis. We may initiate commercial efforts for other approved indications where there is high unmet medical need. The currently approved indications of Acthar Gel are not subject to patent or other exclusivity.

There is significant clinical evidence to support the effectiveness of Acthar Gel. This evidence is the result of company-sponsored controlled clinical trials, as well as previously completed and largely independent clinical case series and smaller trials that have expanded the product's evidence base and strengthened its clinical profile. We continue our efforts to extend the value of the product through product enhancements including the ongoing 

5

development of the Acthar Gel self-injection device, which will create an easier and more patient-friendly application for single unit dosage indications, as well as through additional studies. 

•INOmax® (nitric oxide) gas, for inhalation ("INOmax") is a vasodilator that, in conjunction with ventilatory support and other appropriate agents, is indicated to improve oxygenation and reduce the need for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in term and near-term (>34 weeks) neonates with hypoxic respiratory failure ("HRF") associated with clinical or echocardiographic evidence of pulmonary hypertension. INOmax is also approved in Australia for the treatment of perioperative pulmonary hypertension in adults in conjunction with cardiovascular surgery. Additionally, our Phase 4 registry assessing INOmax for treatment of pulmonary hypertension in premature (27 to 34 weeks) and term and near-term neonates was completed early due to achievement of the pre-specified primary outcome measure, non-inferiority. The decision was made following the second planned interim analysis at 75% enrollment. The interim analysis assessed 54 premature and 84 term and near-term neonates and demonstrated that the trial achieved the significance level for non-inferiority. Evaluation of significant improvement for each neonate is based on at least a 25% decrease in oxygenation index or surrogate oxygenation index during the INOmax treatment period. 

INOmax is marketed as part of the INOmax Total Care package, which includes the drug product, proprietary drug-delivery systems, technical and clinical assistance, 24/7/365 customer service, emergency supply and delivery and on-site training. Development continues for the next-generation INOmax device, which is designed to offer a compact, portable design that we believe will further enhance the safety of the product, as well as the simplicity and flexibility of use in a number of settings. 

•Therakos® photopheresis ("Therakos") is focused on providing innovative immunotherapy treatment platforms that enhance the ability of a patient's immune system to fight disease. Therakos is the global leader in autologous immunotherapy delivered through extracorporeal photopheresis ("ECP") and provides the only integrated ECP system in the world. ECP involves drawing blood from the patient, separating white blood cells from plasma and red blood cells that are returned to the patient, and treating the white blood cells with an Ultraviolet-A ("UVA") light activated drug. The treated white blood cells are immediately re-administered back into the patient. ECP is approved by the FDA for use in the palliative treatment of the skin manifestations of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (“CTCL”) that is unresponsive to other forms of treatment. Outside the U.S., ECP is approved to treat several other serious diseases that arise from immune system imbalances. Therakos' product suite, which is sold to hospitals, clinics, academic centers and blood banks, includes an installed system, a disposable procedural kit used for each treatment and a drug, UVADEX® (methoxsalen) Sterile Solution (“UVADEX”), as well as instrument accessories and instrument maintenance and repair services.

•Amitiza® (lubiprostone) ("Amitiza") is a leading global product in the branded constipation market. Amitiza is approved by the FDA for treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation in adults, irritable bowel syndrome with constipation in women 18 years of age and older, and opioid-induced constipation in adult patients with chronic, non-cancer pain, including patients with chronic pain related to prior cancer or its treatment who do not require frequent opioid dosage escalation. Amitiza is a chloride channel type-two activator that increases fluid secretion and motility of the intestine, facilitating passage of stool. Of the branded products currently marketed, only Amitiza is approved for three constipation indications in the U.S.

•StrataGraft® (allogenic cultured keratinocytes and dermal fibroblasts in murine collagen - dsat) ("StrataGraft") regenerative skin tissue is an allogeneic cellularized scaffold product derived from keratinocytes grown on gelled collagen containing dermal fibroblasts indicated for the treatment of adults with thermal burns containing intact dermal elements for which surgical intervention is clinically indicated (deep partial-thickness burns). StrataGraft is designed to deliver viable cells to support the body's own ability to heal. StrataGraft contains metabolically active cells that produce and secrete a variety of growth factors and cytokines. Growth factors and cytokines are known to be involved in wound repair and regeneration. The product is designed with both dermal and epidermal layers composed of well-characterized human cells. StrataGraft is intended to be applied in appropriate aseptic conditions, such as the operating room, and can be sutured, stapled or secured with a tissue adhesive. 

The FDA granted StrataGraft orphan drug designation, and it was among the first products designated by the FDA as a Regenerative Medicine Advanced Therapy (RMAT) under the provisions of the 21st Century Cures Act. At the time of approval, the FDA awarded us a Priority Review Voucher (PRV). In June 2021, the FDA had approved the StrataGraft biologics license application ("BLA") for deep partial-thickness. We are currently conducting a StrataGraft continued access clinical trial under an expanded access program. The trial sites involved in the pivotal Phase 3 trial have the opportunity to participate in this multicenter, open-label study. We also are currently conducting a Phase 2 trial to evaluate StrataGraft for the treatment of adults with full-thickness burns (also referred to as third-degree burns) and a pediatric study evaluating StrataGraft in the treatment of pediatric populations. 

6

The Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority ("BARDA") expressed interest in StrataGraft as a medical countermeasure in response to large-scale burn incidents, and provided funding and technical support for the continued development of StrataGraft. These efforts are part of BARDA's strategy to build emergency preparedness in response to mass casualty events involving trauma and thermal burns by developing novel medical countermeasures for adult and at-risk populations. In the case of a mass casualty thermal burn event, the Government Accountability Office estimates that more than 10,000 patients might require thermal burn care. The limited number of specialized burn centers and related medical infrastructure in the U.S. creates a public health need for therapies that could be deployed quickly for use in these and other care sites. 

Specialty Generics

Our Specialty Generics segment is focused on providing our customers high-quality specialty generic drugs and APIs. Specialty Generics include a variety of product formulations containing hydrocodone-containing tablets, oxycodone-containing tablets and several other controlled substances, all of which are significant products for the treatment of pain. Our near-term pipeline in this segment includes the expected launch of several new products in the next few years, with additional products in development long-term. Within this segment, we provide bulk API products, including opioids and acetaminophen, to a wide variety of pharmaceutical companies, many of which are direct competitors of our Specialty Generics finished dosage business. In addition, we use our API for internal manufacturing of our finished dosage products.

We are among the world's largest manufacturers of bulk acetaminophen and the only producer of acetaminophen in the North American and European regions with manufacturing facilities exclusively in the U.S. We manufacture controlled substances under the Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA") quota restrictions, and in calendar 2021, we estimated that we received approximately 36.0% of the total DEA quota provided to the U.S. market for the controlled substances we manufacture. We believe that our market position in the API business and allocation of opioid raw materials from the DEA is a competitive advantage for our API business and, in turn, for our Specialty Generics segment. The strategy for our API business is based on manufacturing large volumes of high-quality product and customized product offerings, responsive technical services and timely delivery to our customers.

We market these products principally through independent channels, including drug distributors, specialty pharmaceutical distributors, retail pharmacy chains, food store chains with pharmacies, pharmaceutical benefit managers that have mail order pharmacies and hospital buying groups.

Research and Development

Specialty Brands. Our research and development ("R&D") resources are primarily devoted to our branded products, both inline and pipeline. Our R&D investments center on building a diverse, durable portfolio of innovative therapies that provide value to patients, physicians and payers. Our strategy focuses on growth, including pipeline opportunities related to early- and late-stage development products to meet the needs of underserved patient populations, where we execute on the development process and perform clinical trials to support regulatory approval of new products. 

Data generation is an important strategic driver for our key products, both inline and pipeline, as they extend evidence in approved uses, label enhancements and new indications. Our data strategy is realized through investments in both clinical and health economic activities. We are committed to supporting research that helps advance the understanding and treatment of a variety of different disease states that will further the understanding and development of our currently marketed products, including Acthar Gel, INOmax and Therakos.

The most significant development products in our pipeline are the following:

•Terlipressin is being investigated for the treatment of hepatorenal syndrome ("HRS") type 1 (collectively "HRS-1"), an acute, rare and life-threatening condition requiring hospitalization, with no currently approved therapy in the U.S. or Canada. During fiscal 2019 we completed enrollment for the Phase 3 clinical study (i.e. CONFIRM) to evaluate the efficacy and safety of terlipressin, together with albumin, in adult patients with HRS-1, and announced positive top line results. The study met its prespecified primary endpoint of verified HRS reversal. It also met three of the four prespecified secondary endpoints with the fourth endpoint trending more positive for terlipressin but not achieving statistical significance. This Phase 3 clinical study was conducted under an FDA Special Protocol Assessment (SPA). In March 2020, we initiated and completed a rolling submission of a new drug application ("NDA") filing to the U.S. FDA for terlipressin, and in April 2020 the FDA accepted the NDA for review. In July 2020, the Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee of the FDA voted to recommend approval of the investigational agent terlipressin to treat adults with HRS-1. During September 2020, the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter ("CRL") regarding the Company's NDA seeking approval for terlipressin. The CRL stated that, based on the available data, the agency could not approve the terlipressin NDA in its current form and required more information to support a positive risk-benefit profile for terlipressin for patients with HRS-1. In response to receipt of the CRL, the Company had an End of Review Meeting on October 26, 2020 and a Type A Meeting on January 29, 2021 with the FDA where both parties engaged in constructive dialogue in an effort to clarify a viable path to U.S. approval. On August 18, 

7

2021, we resubmitted our NDA to the FDA and on February 18, 2022 (the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or "PDUFA", date), the FDA issued a CRL. In the weeks leading up to the PDUFA date, it became necessary for us to identify a new packaging and labeling manufacturing facility, which meant that an inspection of the FDA could not be completed by the PDUFA date. A satisfactory inspection is required before the NDA can be approved. This is the only outstanding issue noted in the CRL, and it is important to note that there were no safety or efficacy issues cited. We are working with the new facility to have it ready for inspection by the FDA. We remain committed to this critically ill patient population, who currently have no approved treatment option in the U.S for HRS-1 and we believe that there is a path to approval in 2022.

•SLN 501 is a ribonucleic acid ("RNA") silencing therapy currently in preclinical development designed to inhibit the complement cascade, a group of proteins that are involved in the immune system and play a role in the development of inflammation. These proteins are known to contribute to the pathogenesis of many diseases, including autoimmune diseases. In July 2019, we announced a collaboration with Silence Therapeutics plc ("Silence") to develop and commercialize SLN501, and in September 2020, we exercised an option for two additional complement protein targets under the collaboration. In 2022, we plan to initiate a Phase 1 clinical trial for SLN501 and will continue to advance the additional complement protein targets.

Specialty Generics. The R&D efforts in this segment are focused on hard-to-manufacture pharmaceuticals with difficult-to-replicate pharmacokinetic profiles. Our Specialty Generics pipeline consists of a number of products in various stages of development. We currently perform most of our development work at our Specialty Generics headquarters and technical development center in Webster Groves, Missouri.

We are developing a number of complex generic pharmaceutical products that take advantage of our API and drug product manufacturing capabilities as well as our experience in working with API and contract manufacturing organizations. We currently have five Abbreviated New Drug Applications ("ANDAs") at various stages of review with the FDA and a diverse portfolio of oral, solid and parenteral formulations under development. Our pipeline is focused on applying our capabilities to develop difficult formulations, utilizing our expertise in working with controlled substances to develop potent products, and expanding both our therapeutic and technology platforms into areas with less competitive pressure. We utilize our proven abilities to design around competitor patents to advance both our API and drug product development opportunities and to create our own intellectual property. 

To facilitate our development efforts, we have a multipurpose commercial production facility and pilot plant in St. Louis, Missouri, where we test and scale our manufacturing processes for new products. This also allows us to more rapidly and economically develop certain drug product submissions, all under one roof at our pilot plant, with a limited amount of API or drug product. This facility was converted to dual purpose for both pilot and commercial manufacturing in 2018, and the first product from this facility was approved and launched in 2020.

Competition

Specialty Brands. Certain of our Specialty Brands products do not face direct competition from similar products, but instead compete against alternative forms of treatment that a prescriber may utilize. To successfully compete for business with managed care and pharmacy benefits management organizations, we must often demonstrate that our branded products offer not only superior health outcomes but also cost and service advantages, as compared with other forms of care. For example, while there is no therapeutically substitutable generic alternative for Acthar Gel, it faces significant competition from alternative forms of treatment, and is generally prescribed when earlier-line treatments have failed to provide positive outcomes or are not well tolerated by the patient. We anticipate that competition will likely intensify following ANI Pharmaceuticals Inc.'s ("ANI") commercial launch of their purified cortrophin gel product during the first quarter of 2022.

However, certain of our Specialty Brands products now have direct competition in the U.S. market. For example, there is now direct competition in the U.S. market for INOmax. However, we believe INOmax's highly differentiated service offering and the next generation delivery system will help to differentiate the product and mitigate the impact of competition longer-term.

The highly competitive environment of our Specialty Brands segment requires us to continually seek out new products to treat diseases and conditions in areas of high unmet medical need, to create technological innovations and to market our products effectively. Most new products that we introduce must compete with other products already on the market, as well as other products that are subsequently developed by competitors. For our branded products, we may be granted market exclusivity either through the FDA, the U.S. Patent Office or similar agencies internationally. Regulatory exclusivity is granted by the FDA for new innovations, such as new clinical data, a new chemical entity or orphan drugs, and patents are issued for inventions, such as composition of matter or method of use. While patents offer a longer period of exclusivity, there are more bases to challenge patent-conferred exclusivity than with regulatory exclusivity. Generally, once market exclusivity expires on our branded products, competition will likely intensify as generic forms of the product are launched. Products that do not benefit from regulatory or patent exclusivity must rely on other competitive advantages, such as confidentiality agreements or product formulation trade secrets for difficult to replicate products.

Manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals typically invest far less in R&D than research-based pharmaceutical companies, allowing generic versions to typically be significantly less expensive than the related branded products. The generic form of a drug 

8

may also enjoy a preferred position relative to the branded version under third-party reimbursement programs, or be routinely dispensed in substitution for the branded form by pharmacies. If competitors introduce new products, delivery systems or processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price reductions, decreased sales volume or both. To successfully compete for business with managed care and pharmacy benefits management organizations, we must often demonstrate that our branded products offer not only superior health outcomes but also cost advantages, as compared with other forms of care. Certain of our Specialty Brands products are targeted for niche patient populations with unmet medical needs, for example Acthar Gel, that may not be prescribed unless a clear benefit in efficacy or safety is demonstrated or until alternatives have failed to provide positive patient outcomes or are not well tolerated by the patient. 

As it relates to our Amitiza product, many patients are currently treated for chronic idiopathic constipation ("CIC"), irritable bowel syndrome with constipation ("IBS-C") or opioid-induced constipation ("OIC") with a variety of medications. Over-the-counter medications are available and are generally intended to provide relief for occasional constipation. Prescription products are also available and are generally intended to provide relief for chronic constipation. As such, the U.S. constipation market is expansive and diverse with a multitude of products intended to treat a large heterogeneous patient population. The prescription chronic constipation market can generally be bifurcated into two categories: 1) generic laxatives and 2) branded products. Generic laxatives make up roughly 80%-90% of the total prescription volume while branded prescriptions have grown to represent 10%-20% of the prescription market. Linzess is the leading branded competitor in this market, marketed by Allergan plc and Ironwood Pharmaceuticals. At this time, Amitiza is the only branded product with chloride channel type-two activator mechanism of action. Amitiza is also the only branded product on the market today in three separate indications for CIC, IBS-C and OIC.

Prior to our acquisition of Amitiza in February 2018, the previous owner had entered into agreements to license certain rights to Amitiza to third parties in exchange for royalties on net sales of the product. We receive a double-digit royalty based on a percentage of the gross profits of the licensed products sold during the term of the agreement, which continues until each of our related patents has expired; provided that the percentage of gross profits shall be reduced to zero for the agreement with Par Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al. (collectively "Par") if two or more generics or authorized generics are commercially marketing a generic product in addition to Par. Refer to Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included within Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding patent litigation in relation to Amitiza.

Specialty Generics. Our Specialty Generics products compete with products manufactured by many other companies in highly competitive markets, primarily throughout the U.S. Our competitors vary depending upon therapeutic and product categories. Major competitors of our Specialty Generics products include Rhodes Pharmaceuticals LP, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., Aurobindo Pharma Ltd., Amneal Pharmaceutical Ltd., Noramco, Inc. and Johnson Matthey plc, among others. We believe our secure sources of opioid raw materials, vertically integrated manufacturing capabilities, broad offerings of API controlled substances and acetaminophen, comprehensive generic controlled substances product line and established relationships with national and regional distributors of generic drugs in the U.S. enable us to compete with larger generic manufacturers. In addition, we believe that our experience with the FDA, DEA and Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies ("REMS") provides us the knowledge to operate efficiently and effectively in this highly regulated, competitive environment.

The Specialty Generics segment faces intense competition from other generic drug manufacturers, brand-name pharmaceutical companies marketing authorized generics, existing branded equivalents and manufacturers of therapeutically similar drugs. The competition varies depending upon the specific product category and dosage strength. Among the large generic controlled substance providers, we are one of the only generic manufacturers that has its own controlled substance API manufacturing capability, and we believe that we offer more vertically integrated generic controlled substance products than any other U.S. manufacturer. New drugs and future developments in improved or advanced drug delivery technologies or other therapeutic techniques may provide therapeutic or cost advantages when compared to the products we sell. The maintenance of profitable operations in generic pharmaceuticals depends, in part, on our ability to select, develop and timely launch new generic products, as well as our ability to manufacture such new products in a cost efficient, high-quality manner and implement and drive market volume. 

As a result of consolidation among wholesale distributors and rapid growth of large retail drug store chains, a small number of large wholesale distributors and retail drug store chains control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drug store chains has decreased. This has resulted in customers gaining more purchasing power. Consequently, there is heightened competition among generic drug producers for the business of this smaller and more selective customer base.

In our API business, we believe that our competitive advantages include our manufacturing capabilities in controlled substances that enable high-speed, high-volume tableting, packaging and distribution. Additionally, we believe we offer customers reliability of supply and broad-based technical customer service.

The competitive landscape in the acquisition and in-licensing of pharmaceutical products has intensified in recent years, reflecting both a reduction in the number of compounds available and an increase in the number of companies and the collective resources bidding on available assets. The ability to effectively compete in product development, acquisitions and in-licensing is important to our long-term growth strategy. In addition to product development and acquisitions, other competitive factors in the pharmaceutical 

9

industry include product efficacy, safety, ease of use, price, demonstrated cost-effectiveness, third-party reimbursement, marketing effectiveness, customer service, reliability of supply, reputation and technical capabilities.

Intellectual Property

We own or license a number of patents in the U.S. and other countries covering certain products and have also developed brand names and trademarks for those and other products. Generally, our Specialty Brands business relies upon patent protection to ensure market exclusivity for the life of the patent. We consider the overall protection of our patents, trademarks and license rights to be of material value and act to protect these rights from infringement. However, our business is not materially dependent upon any single patent, trademark or license or any group of patents, trademarks or licenses. 

The majority of an innovative product's commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. In the branded pharmaceutical industry, an innovator product's market exclusivity is generally determined by two forms of intellectual property: patent rights held by the innovator company and any regulatory forms of exclusivity to which the innovator is entitled. In addition, commercial durability may also partially depend upon product-related trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and trademark and copyright laws. These additional items may not prevent competitors from independently developing similar technology or a bioequivalent product.

Patents are a key determinant of market exclusivity for most branded pharmaceuticals. Patents provide the innovator with the right to exclude others from practicing an invention related to the product. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the expiration dates of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, its scope of coverage and the availability of meaningful legal remedies in the country.

Many developed countries provide certain non-patent incentives for the development of pharmaceuticals. Regulatory exclusivity is independent of any patent rights and can be particularly important when a drug lacks broad patent protection. However, most regulatory forms of exclusivity do not prevent a competitor from gaining regulatory approval prior to the expiration of regulatory exclusivity on the basis of the competitor's own safety and efficacy data on its drug, even when that drug is identical to that marketed by the innovator.

We estimate the likely market exclusivity period for each of our branded products on a case-by-case basis. It is not possible to predict with certainty the length of market exclusivity for any of our branded products because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms of exclusivity, the relative success or lack thereof by potential competitors' experience in product development and inherent uncertainties concerning patent litigation. There can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that we currently estimate or that the exclusivity will be limited to the estimate.

Regulatory Matters

Quality Assurance Requirements

The FDA enforces regulations to ensure that the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the manufacture, processing, packaging and holding of drugs and medical devices conform to current good manufacturing practice ("cGMP"). The cGMP regulations that the FDA enforces are comprehensive and cover all aspects of manufacturing operations, from receipt of raw materials to finished product distribution, and are designed to ensure that the finished products meet all the required identity, strength, quality and purity characteristics. The cGMP regulations for devices, called the Quality System Regulations, are also comprehensive and cover all aspects of device manufacture, from pre-production design validation to installation and servicing, insofar as they bear upon the safe and effective use of the device and whether the device otherwise meets the requirements of the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the "FFDCA"). Other regulatory authorities have their own cGMP rules. Ensuring compliance requires a continuous commitment of time, money and effort in all operational areas.

United States

In general, drug manufacturers operate in a highly regulated environment. In the U.S., we must comply with laws, regulations, guidance documents and standards promulgated by the FDA, the Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS"), the DEA, the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"), the Customs Service and state boards of pharmacy.

The FDA approves pharmaceuticals through three distinct pathways. First, in order to market and sell a new prescription non-biologic drug product in the U.S., a drug manufacturer must file a NDA with the FDA that shows the safety and effectiveness of (a) a new dosage form, new combination, new formulation, new indication or a new chemical entity that serves as the API, known as a 505(b)(1) NDA; or (b) a product that has significant differences from an already approved one, but where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by the applicant, known as a 505(b)(2) NDA. Second, in order to market and sell a generic version of an already approved drug product, a drug manufacturer must file an ANDA that shows that the 

10

generic version is "therapeutically equivalent," or expected to have the same clinical effect and safety profile as the branded drug product when administered to patients under the conditions specified in the labeling. Third, a BLA is filed with the FDA so that the agency can assess, among other things, whether the biological product is safe, pure and potent and the facility in which it is manufactured, processed, packed or held meets standards designed to assure the product's continued safety, purity and potency.

The FDA typically uses different approval pathways for medical devices. To market and sell a new medical device in the U.S., the manufacturer generally must follow one of two paths. First, a manufacturer could follow what is known as pre-market notification or the 510(k) process. This process requires the manufacturer to demonstrate that the medical device is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device. The second process, pre-market approval, is a more stringent time-consuming process. This requires that the medical device is independently proven to be safe and effective for its intended use.

For all pharmaceuticals sold in the U.S., the FDA also regulates sales and marketing to ensure that drug product claims made by manufacturers are neither false nor misleading. Manufacturers are required to file copies of all product-specific promotional materials with the FDA's Office of Prescription Drug Promotion prior to their first use. In general, such advertising does not require FDA prior approval. Failure to implement a robust internal company review process and comply with FDA regulations regarding advertising and promotion increases the risk of enforcement action by either the FDA or the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ").

In addition, the manufacture, marketing and selling of certain drug products may be limited by quota grants for controlled substances by the DEA. Refer to "Drug Enforcement Administration" within this Item 1. Business for further information.

NDA Process. The path leading to FDA approval of a NDA for a new drug product begins when the drug product is merely a chemical formulation in the laboratory. In general, the process involves the following steps:

•Completion of formulation and laboratory testing in accordance with good laboratory practice ("GLP") that fully characterizes the drug product from a pre-clinical perspective and provides preliminary evidence that the drug product is safe to test in human beings;

•Filing an investigational new drug application with the FDA will permit the conduct of clinical trials (testing in human beings under adequate and well-controlled conditions);

•Designing and conducting clinical trials to show the safety and efficacy of the drug product in accordance with good clinical practice ("GCP");

•Submitting the NDA for FDA review, which provides a complete characterization of the drug product;

•Satisfactory completion of FDA pre-approval inspections regarding the conduct of the clinical trials and the manufacturing processes at the designated facility in accordance with cGMP;

•If applicable, satisfactory completion of an FDA Advisory Committee meeting in which the FDA requests help from outside experts in evaluating the NDA;

•Final FDA approval of the full prescribing information, labeling and packaging of the drug product; and

•Ongoing monitoring and reporting of adverse events related to the drug product, implementation of a REMS program, if applicable, and conduct of any required Phase 4 studies.

Clinical trials are typically conducted in four sequential phases, although they may overlap. The four phases are as follows:

•Phase 1 trials are typically small (less than 100 healthy volunteers) and are designed to determine the toxicity and maximum safe dose of the drug product.

•Phase 2 trials usually involve 100 to 300 participants and are designed to determine whether the drug product produces any clinically significant effects in patients with the intended disease or condition. If the results of these trials show promise, then a larger Phase 3 trial may be conducted.

•Phase 3 trials are often multi-institution studies that involve a large number of participants and are designed to show efficacy. Phase 3 (and some Phase 2) trials are designed to be pivotal, or confirmatory trials. The goal of a pivotal trial is to establish the safety and efficacy of a drug product by eliminating biases and increasing statistical power.

•In some cases, the FDA requires Phase 4 trials, which are usually performed after the NDA has been approved. Such post-marketing surveillance is intended to obtain more information about the risks of harm, benefits and optimal use of the drug product by observing the results of the drug product in a large number of patients.

The path leading to FDA approval of a NDA for a drug product that has significant differences from an already approved NDA is somewhat shorter. The FDA requires a drug manufacturer to submit data from either already published reports or newly conducted studies that show the safety and efficacy of those differences. Significant differences include different dosage strengths or route of administration.

11

Under the PDUFA, the FDA has the authority to collect fees from drug manufacturers who submit NDAs for review and approval. These user fees help the FDA fund the drug approval process. For fiscal 2022, the user fee rate has been set at $3,117,220 for a 505(b)(1) NDA and $1,558,610 for a NDA not requiring a complete clinical data package, generally a 505(b)(2) NDA. We expense these fees as they are incurred. The average review time for a NDA is approximately six months for priority review and ten months for standard review.

BLA Process. In many ways, the process undertaken to get a new biologic product approved by the FDA is very similar to the approval process for an NDA. However, biological products are typically derived from living systems, meaning that their large, complex structures are often difficult to characterize, as opposed to traditional drug molecules that are chemically synthesized and structurally both simpler and smaller in size. This underlying distinction drives key differences in the regulatory process, particularly with regard to how competitive versions of a biological product, known as biosimilars, can be brought to market.

Like a NDA, a BLA is submitted to the FDA in order to market a new drug in the U.S., and as such, both must contain enough information to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of the drug, as well as demonstrate a proper risk-to-benefit ratio, in order to be successful. Additionally, many of the same regulations apply to NDAs and BLAs, including clinical trial requirements, labeling and advertising rules, pre-marketing regulations, accelerated approval pathways, pediatric study requirements, and PDUFA fees. However, because biological products are processed from living material, BLA content must also demonstrate purity. In addition, the manufacturing process for biological products is more complicated, due to genetic variability in the source material. Therefore, it is critical that BLAs contain a thorough description of product development and relevant manufacturing procedures, as well as all steps taken to ensure that the final biological product performs consistently across batches.

Further, in March 2020 the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation (“BPCI”) Act went into effect, which created an abbreviated approval pathway (codified in Section 351(k) of the Public Health Service Act) to encourage the development of biosimilars, which are defined as a biologic that is "highly similar" to the reference product, notwithstanding minor differences in clinically inactive components and has no clinically meaningful differences from the reference product in terms of safety, purity and potency. Under Section 351(k), the FDA must wait four years after approval of a biological product under a BLA before accepting a filing for a biosimilar version of the reference product, and the FDA cannot approve a biosimilar version of the reference product until 12 years after the reference product was approved under a BLA. The BPCI Act also provides for limited regulatory exclusivity for the first FDA-approved interchangeable biologic with respect to each reference product. This means that the FDA will defer approval of additional interchangeable biologics to the same reference product for defined periods of one year or more.

ANDA Process. The path leading to FDA approval of an ANDA is quite different from that of a NDA, a BLA or even a biosimilar. By statute, the FDA waives the requirement for a drug manufacturer to complete certain pre-clinical studies and clinical safety and efficacy trials and instead focuses on data establishing bioequivalence between the branded or Referenced Listed Drug ("RLD") and the ANDA product. In the event that the active ingredient in the generic drug behaves in the same manner in the human body as the RLD, the two drug products are considered bioequivalent. The FDA considers a generic drug therapeutically equivalent, and therefore substitutable, if it is also the same dosage form, route of administration and strength as the RLD.

 In 2010, the U.S. Congress passed into law the Generic Drug User Fee Act to address the FDA's backlog, which at the time was over 2,000 ANDAs. This legislation granted the FDA authority to collect, user fees from generic drug manufacturers who submit ANDAs for review and approval, and the fees collected help the FDA fund the drug approval process. Under the Generic Drug User Fee Amendments of 2017, the fiscal 2022 user fee rate is set at $225,710 for an ANDA and the prior approval supplement to an ANDA fee was removed. These fees are expensed as incurred. The FDA has set goal dates by fiscal year for ANDA submissions to improve the average review time. The FDA has set a target of approving 90% of ANDA submissions within 10 months of submission for submissions made in 2022.

Medical Devices. There are two primary pathways to receive authorization to distribute a new device in the U.S. The first pathway is premarket notification (the 510(k) process). Under this pathway, the applicant must demonstrate to the FDA that the new device is as safe and effective or substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device. The applicant can demonstrate this by submitting data. This data may be from human clinical trials. The FDA will make a determination as to whether the new device is substantially equivalent before commercial distribution occurs. Changes that do not significantly affect the safety or efficacy of a legally marketed device may generally be made without additional 510(k) premarket notifications.

The second primary pathway is a premarket approval application ("PMA"). This pathway is generally more complex, time-consuming and expensive than the 510(k) process. Under the PMA pathway, the applicant must demonstrate that the device is safe and effective for its intended use. This generally requires data from clinical trials to show the safety and efficacy of the device. These trials must be performed in accordance with the applicable Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) regulations. The FDA will approve the application if it finds that the evidence is scientifically valid to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective for its intended use.

Patent and Non-Patent Exclusivity Periods. A sponsor of a NDA is required to identify in its application any patent that claims the drug or a use of the drug subject to the application. Upon NDA approval, the FDA lists these patents in the Orange Book. Any person that files a Section 505(b)(2) NDA, the type of NDA that relies upon the data in the application for which the patents are listed, or an ANDA to secure approval of a generic version of a previous drug, must make a certification in respect to listed patents. The FDA may not approve such an application for the drug until expiration of the listed patents unless the generic applicant certifies that the 

12

listed patents are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed by the proposed generic drug and gives notice to the holder of the NDA for the RLD of the bases upon which the patents are challenged, and the holder of the RLD does not sue the later applicant for patent infringement within 45 days of receipt of notice. If an infringement suit is filed, the FDA may not approve the later application until the earliest of: (a) 30 months after receipt of the notice by the holder of the NDA for the RLD; (b) entry of an appellate court judgment holding the patent invalid, unenforceable or not infringed; (c) such time as the court may order; or (d) the expiration of the patent.

One of the key motivators for challenging patents is the 180-day market exclusivity period ("generic exclusivity") granted to the developer of a generic version of a product that is the first to file an ANDA containing a Paragraph IV certification and that prevails in litigation with the manufacturer of the branded product over the applicable patent(s) or is not sued or enters into a settlement agreement with the manufacturer of the branded product. For a variety of reasons, there are situations in which a company may not be able to take advantage of an award of generic exclusivity. The determination of when generic exclusivity begins and ends is very complicated as it depends on several different factors.

The holder of the NDA for the RLD may also be entitled to certain non-patent exclusivity during which the FDA cannot approve an application for a competing generic product or 505(b)(2) NDA product. Generally, if the RLD is a new chemical entity, the FDA may not accept for filing any application that references the innovator's NDA for five years from the approval of the innovator's NDA. However, this five-year period is shortened to four years where a filer's ANDA includes a Paragraph IV certification. In other cases, where the innovator has provided certain clinical study information, the FDA may accept for filing, but may not approve, an application that references the innovator's NDA for a period of three years from the approval of the innovator's NDA.

Certain additional periods of exclusivity may be available if the RLD is indicated for use in a rare disease or condition or is studied for pediatric indications.

Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies. The FDA has the authority to require the manufacturer to provide a REMS that is intended to ensure that the benefits of a drug product or class of drug products outweigh the risks of harm. The goal of these programs is to mitigate the risk of abuse, misuse, overdose and accidental exposure as well as educating prescribers, pharmacists, healthcare providers and patients about the safe use of the drug product or class of drug products and the treatment and monitoring of patients. The FDA has the authority to impose civil penalties on or take other enforcement action against any drug manufacturer who fails to properly implement an approved REMS program. We participate in the Transmucosal Immediate Release Fentanyl (TIRF) REMS Program, Opioid Analgesic REMS, Buprenorphine Transmucosal Products for Opioid Dependence REMS (BTOD REMS), Vigabatrin REMS and other such REMS programs.

Drug Enforcement Administration. The DEA is the U.S. federal agency responsible for domestic enforcement of the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 ("CSA"). The CSA classifies drugs and other substances based on identified potential for abuse. Schedule I controlled substances, such as heroin and LSD, have a high abuse potential and have no currently accepted medical use; thus, they cannot be lawfully marketed or sold. Opioids, such as oxycodone, oxymorphone, morphine, fentanyl and hydrocodone, are Schedule II controlled substances. Consequently, the manufacture, storage, distribution and sale of these substances are highly regulated.

The DEA regulates the availability of API, products under development and marketed drug products that are classified as Schedule II or III by setting annual quotas. Every year, we must apply to the DEA for manufacturing quota to manufacture API and procurement quota to manufacture finished dosage products. Given that the DEA has discretion to grant or deny our manufacturing and procurement quota requests, the quota the DEA grants may be insufficient to meet our commercial and R&D needs. In calendar 2021, manufacturing and procurement quotas granted by the DEA were sufficient to meet our sales and inventory requirements on most products. In December 2021, the DEA continued to further reduce, as it has done over the past several years, the manufacturing quota for the top misused Schedule II opioids that may be manufactured in the U.S. in calendar year 2022. This includes oxycodone, hydrocodone, oxymorphone, hydromorphone and fentanyl. The DEA has complete discretion to adjust or leave unchanged these quotas from time to time during the calendar year and to allocate manufacturing and procurement quota to manufacturers.

DEA regulations make it extremely difficult for a manufacturer in the U.S. to import finished dosage forms of controlled substances manufactured outside the U.S. These rules reflect a broader enforcement approach by the DEA to regulate the manufacture, distribution and dispensing of legally produced controlled substances. Accordingly, drug manufacturers who market and sell finished dosage forms of controlled substances in the U.S. typically manufacture or have them manufactured in the U.S.

The DEA also requires drug manufacturers to design and implement a system that identifies suspicious orders of controlled substances, such as those of unusual size, those that deviate substantially from a normal pattern and those of unusual frequency, prior to completion of the sale. A compliant suspicious order monitoring ("SOM") system includes well-defined due diligence, "know your customer" efforts and order monitoring. One of our Specialty Generics subsidiaries utilizes all available transaction information to identify suspicious orders of any Mallinckrodt product and reports to the DEA when it concludes that chargeback data or other information indicates that a downstream registrant poses a risk of diversion.

To meet its responsibilities, the DEA conducts periodic inspections of registered establishments that handle controlled substances. Annual registration is required for any facility that manufactures, tests, distributes, dispenses, imports or exports any controlled substance. The facilities must have the security, control and accounting mechanisms required by the DEA to prevent loss and diversion.

13

Individual states also regulate controlled substances, and we, as well as our third-party API suppliers and manufacturers, are subject to such regulation by several states with respect to the manufacture and distribution of these products.

We and, to our knowledge, our third-party API suppliers, dosage form manufacturers, distributors and researchers have all necessary registrations, and we believe all registrants operate in conformity with applicable registration requirements, under controlled substance laws.

Government Benefit Programs. Statutory and regulatory requirements for Medicaid, Medicare, Tricare and other government healthcare programs govern provider reimbursement levels, including requiring that all pharmaceutical companies pay rebates to individual states based on a percentage of their net sales arising from Medicaid program-reimbursed products. The federal and state governments may continue to enact measures in the future aimed at containing or reducing payment levels for prescription pharmaceuticals paid for in whole or in part with government funds. We cannot predict the nature of such measures, which could have material adverse consequences for the pharmaceutical industry as a whole and, consequently, also for us. However, we believe we have provided for our best estimate of potential refunds based on current information available.

From time to time, legislative changes are made to government healthcare programs that impact our business. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 created a prescription drug coverage program for people with Medicare through a system of private market drug benefit plans. This law provides a prescription drug benefit to seniors and individuals with disabilities in the Medicare program ("Medicare Part D"). Congress continues to examine various Medicare policy proposals that may result in pressure on the prices of prescription drugs in the Medicare program.

In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, "the Healthcare Reform Act") provided for major changes to the U.S. healthcare system, which impacted the delivery and payment for healthcare services in the U.S. Our business has been most notably impacted by rebates from the Medicaid Fee-For-Service Program and Medicaid Managed Care plans and the imposition of an annual fee on branded prescription pharmaceutical manufacturers. Medicaid provisions reduced net sales by $106.5 million, $665.3 million and $75.9 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The fiscal 2021 decrease in provision for Medicaid payments was due to the $536.0 million retrospective one-time charge related to the Medicaid lawsuit in fiscal 2020 that is further discussed within Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included within Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The remaining $22.8 million decrease in the fiscal 2021 provision for Medicaid payments was primarily due to a $21.7 million decrease in Specialty Brands associated with Acthar Gel. The fiscal 2020 provision was impacted by the aforementioned retrospective one-time charge related to the Medicaid lawsuit. The remaining $53.4 million increase in the fiscal 2020 provision for Medicaid payments, as compared to fiscal 2019, was driven by a $47.8 million increase due to Specialty Brands, which includes the $40.4 million prospective impact of the Medicaid lawsuit on Acthar Gel, coupled with a $5.6 million decrease associated with Specialty Generics. Our business was also impacted by the annual fee on branded prescription pharmaceutical manufacturers, which is reflected within selling, general and administrative expenses ("SG&A"). During fiscal 2021, we recorded a gain of $1.0 million driven primarily by favorable adjustments by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for prior periods primarily related to the Medicaid lawsuit ruling. Comparatively, during fiscal 2020 and 2019, we recorded an expense of $11.6 million and $20.1 million, respectively.

Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. For example, in the U.S., there are federal and state anti-kickback laws that prohibit the payment or receipt of kickbacks, bribes or other remuneration intended to induce the purchase or recommendation of healthcare products and services or reward past purchases or recommendations, including the U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state statutes, the FCA and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPPA). Violations of these laws can lead to civil and criminal penalties, including fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. These laws apply to hospitals, physicians and other potential purchasers of our products and are potentially applicable to us as both a manufacturer and a supplier of products reimbursed by federal healthcare programs. In addition, some states in the U.S. have enacted compliance and reporting requirements aimed at drug manufacturers.

We are also subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 ("FCPA") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions, such as the United Kingdom ("U.K.") Bribery Act of 2010, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, most of our customer relationships outside of the U.S. are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws; however, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents.

14

Compliance Programs

In order to systematically and comprehensively mitigate the risks of non-compliance with legal and regulatory requirements described within this Item 1. Business, we have developed what we believe to be robust compliance programs based on the April 2003 Office of the Inspector General ("OIG") Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, the U.S. Department of Justice Guidance on the Evaluation of Corporate Compliance Programs, the U.S. Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals, the Code of Ethics of the Advanced Medical Technology Association, the U.K. Anti-Bribery guidance, and other relevant guidance from government and national or regional industry codes of behavior. We conduct ongoing compliance training programs for all employees and maintain a 24-hour integrity and compliance reporting hotline with a strict policy of non-retaliation. Our compliance programs are implemented and facilitated by our Chief Compliance Officer, who reports to the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and the Governance and Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors. The Compliance function is independent of the manufacturing and commercial operations functions.

As part of our compliance programs, we have implemented internal cross-functional processes to review and approve product-specific promotional materials, presentations and external communications to address the risk of misbranding, mislabeling or making false or misleading claims about our products through our promotional efforts. In addition, we monitor business activities through our compliance monitoring program including: sales representatives expenses, promotional speaker activities and a "ride along" program for compliance to observe field sales representatives interacting with healthcare professionals similar to those included in recent Corporate Integrity Agreements from the OIG. We have also implemented a comprehensive controlled substances compliance program, including SOM and anti-diversion efforts and we regularly assist federal, state and local law enforcement and prosecutors in the U.S. by providing information and testimony on our products and placebos for use by the DEA and other law enforcement agencies in investigations and at trial. As part of this program, we also work with some of our customers to help develop and implement what we believe are best practices for SOM and other anti-diversion activities.

Additionally, we implemented an Opioid Product Operating Injunction compliance program as a result of certain Mallinckrodt entities agreeing to be bound by an Operating Injunction enjoining those entities from engaging in certain conduct related to the manner in which they operate their opioid business. The Operating Injunction prohibits, among other things, certain promotional activities related to opioid products and pain treatment, financial and in-kind support for third parties involved with opioids or pain treatment, and certain lobbying activities and communications related to opioids and pain treatment. The Operating Injunction also contains requirements for controlled substances SOM and reporting. The Operating Injunction further requires Mallinckrodt to make available certain clinical data through a third-party data archive and publicly disclose certain produced documents related to the opioid litigation. The Operating Injunction provides that Mallinckrodt must retain an independent monitor to evaluate and audit compliance with the Operating Injunction for a term of five to seven years. On February 8, 2021, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order appointing R. Gil Kerlikowske to serve as monitor.

The monitor has since filed four compliance reports with the Bankruptcy Court describing his work and making certain recommendations regarding potential enhancements to the Company's processes that the Company has worked to implement. The Company has, among other actions, retained a consulting firm with expertise in data analytics to consult regarding the Company's SOM program; enhanced the Company's internal system for customer inquiries and concerns to encourage further collaboration across business units; and implemented a plan to audit state and federal lobbying activity to monitor compliance with the Operating Injunction.

In connection with the Proposed Acthar Gel-Related Settlement, the Company entered into a corporate integrity agreement ("CIA") with the OIG of the HHS in March 2022.

We believe our compliance program's design also addresses our FDA, healthcare anti-kickback, anti-fraud, and anti-bribery-related risks. We believe we have complied with reporting obligations of the U.S. Federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act and relevant state disclosure laws and have implemented a program across the Company to track and report data per CMS guidance and state disclosure requirements.

Outside the United States

Outside the U.S., we must comply with laws, guidelines and standards promulgated by other regulatory authorities that regulate the development, testing, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and selling of pharmaceuticals, including, but not limited to, Health Canada, the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency in the U.K., the Irish Medicines Board, the European Medicines Agency ("EMA") and member states of the European Union ("E.U."), the Therapeutic Goods Administration in Australia, the Ministry of Health and Welfare in Japan, the European Pharmacopoeia of the Council of Europe and the International Conference on Harmonization. Although international harmonization efforts continue, many laws, guidelines and standards differ by region or country.

We currently market our products in Canada, in various countries in the E.U., and in the Latin American, Middle Eastern, African and Asia-Pacific regions. The approval requirements and process vary by country, and the time required to obtain a marketing 

15

authorization may vary from that required for FDA approval. Certain drug products and variations in drug product lines also must meet country-specific and other local regulatory requirements. The following discussion highlights some of the differences in the approval process in other regions or countries outside the U.S.

European Union. Marketing authorizations are obtained pursuant to either a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure, which provides for a single marketing authorization valid for all E.U. member states, is mandatory for the approval of certain drug products and is optional for novel drug products that are in the interest of patient health. Under the centralized procedure, a single marketing authorization application is submitted for review to the EMA, which makes a recommendation on the application to the European Commission, who determines whether or not to approve the application. The decentralized procedure provides for concurrent mutual recognition of national approval decisions, and is available for products that are not subject to the centralized procedure.

The E.U. has also adopted directives and other laws that govern the labeling, marketing, advertising, supply, distribution and drug safety monitoring and reporting of drug products. Such directives set regulatory standards throughout the E.U. and permit member states to supplement such standards with additional requirements.

European governments also regulate drug prices through the control of national healthcare systems that fund a large part of such costs to patients. Many regulate the pricing of a new drug product at launch through direct price controls or reference pricing and, recently, some have also imposed additional cost-containment measures on drug products. Such differences in national pricing regimes may create price differentials between E.U. member states. Many European governments also advocate generic substitution by requiring or permitting prescribers or pharmacists to substitute a different company's generic version of a branded drug product that was prescribed, and patients are unlikely to take a drug product that is not reimbursed by their government.

Emerging Markets. Many emerging markets continue to evolve their regulatory review and oversight processes. At present, such countries typically require prior regulatory approval or marketing authorization from large, developed markets (such as the U.S.) before they will initiate or complete their review. Some countries also require the applicant to conduct local clinical trials as a condition of marketing authorization. Many emerging markets continue to implement measures to control drug product prices, such as implementing direct price controls or advocating the prescribing and use of generic drugs.

Environmental

Our operations, like those of other pharmaceutical companies, involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily in manufacturing processes and, as such, we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and non-U.S. environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations. We cannot provide assurance that we have been or will be in full compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations at all times. Certain environmental laws assess strict, (i.e., can be imposed regardless of fault) joint and several liability on current or previous owners of real property and current or previous owners or operators of facilities for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at such properties or at properties at which parties have disposed of hazardous substances. We have, from time to time, received notification from the EPA and from state environmental agencies in the U.S. that conditions at a number of sites where the disposal of hazardous substances has taken place requires investigation, cleanup and other possible remedial actions. These agencies may require that we reimburse the government for costs incurred at these sites or otherwise pay for the cost of investigation and cleanup of these sites including compensation for damage to natural resources. Primarily due to past operations, operations of predecessor companies or past disposal practices, we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities as well as former disposal sites to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations, as further described in Note 19 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We continue to be dedicated to environmental sustainability programs to minimize the use of natural resources and reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials from our manufacturing process and to remediate identified environmental concerns. Environmental laws are complex and generally have become more stringent over time. We believe that our operations currently comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations, and have planned for future capital and operating expenditures to comply with these laws and to address liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances.

Raw Materials

We contract with various third-party manufacturers and suppliers, most notably related to our Specialty Brands products, to provide us with raw materials used in our products, finished goods and certain services. If, for any reason, we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of any of the raw materials, finished goods, services or components required for our products, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

16

The active ingredients in the majority of our current Specialty Generics products and certain products in development, including oxycodone, oxymorphone, morphine, fentanyl and hydrocodone, are listed by the DEA as Schedule II substances under the CSA. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use are subject to a high degree of regulation and the DEA limits the availability of narcotic raw materials and the production of APIs and generic Schedule II substances through manufacturing and procurement quotas that we must apply for annually in order to obtain and produce these substances.

Sales, Marketing and Customers

Sales and Marketing

We market our branded products to physicians (including neurologists, rheumatologists, nephrologists, pulmonologists, ophthalmologists, oncologists, neonatologists and surgeons), other health care providers including respiratory therapists, pharmacists, pharmacy buyers, hospital procurement departments, ambulatory surgical centers and specialty pharmacies. We distribute our branded and generic products through independent channels, including wholesale drug distributors, specialty pharmaceutical distributors, retail pharmacy chains, hospital networks, ambulatory surgical centers and governmental agencies. In addition, we contract with group purchasing organizations ("GPO(s)") and managed care organizations to improve access to our products. We sell and distribute API directly or through distributors to other pharmaceutical companies.

For further information on our sales and marketing strategies, refer to "Our Businesses and Product Strategies" included within this Item 1. Business.

Customers

Net sales to distributors that accounted for more than 10.0% of our total net sales in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Net sales to this distributor were less than 10.0% of total net sales during the respective periods presented above.

No other customer accounted for 10.0% or more of our net sales in the above periods presented. 

Manufacturing and Distribution

As of December 31, 2021, we had 11 manufacturing sites, including eight located in the U.S., as well as sites in Ireland and Japan, which handle production, assembly, quality assurance testing, packaging and sterilization of our products. Approximately 93.5%, 4.2% and 2.3% of our manufacturing production (as measured by cost of production) was performed within the U.S., Ireland and Japan, respectively, in fiscal 2021.

As of December 31, 2021, we maintained distribution centers in ten countries. In addition, in certain countries outside the U.S. we utilize third-party distribution centers. Products generally are delivered to these distribution centers from our manufacturing facilities and then subsequently delivered to the customer. In some instances, product is delivered directly from our manufacturing facility to the customer. We contract with a wide range of transport providers to deliver our products by road, rail, sea and air.

We utilize contract manufacturing organizations ("CMOs") to manufacture certain of our finished goods that are available for resale. We most frequently utilize CMOs in the manufacture of certain of our Specialty Brands products, including Acthar Gel (for finish and filling of the product) and Therakos products. 

Seasonality

We have historically experienced fluctuations in our business resulting from seasonality. For example, Acthar Gel has typically experienced lower net sales during the first calendar quarter compared to other calendar quarters, which we believe is partially attributable to effects of annual insurance deductibles and the lack of warm temperatures that may exacerbate certain medical conditions. DEA quotas for raw materials and final dosage products are allocated in each calendar year to companies and may impact our sales until the DEA grants additional quotas, if any. Impacts from quota limitations are most commonly experienced during the third and fourth calendar quarters, and we have typically experienced lower net sales in DEA controlled products during the fourth calendar quarter. While we have experienced these fluctuations in the past, they may not be indicative of what we will experience in the future.

17

Human Capital

At Mallinckrodt, we value our employees as our most important asset. We aim to create a culture and a work environment that is inclusive and that welcomes diverse experiences and perspectives. We work hard to identify, retain and attract a diverse workforce that shares our corporate vision to improve the lives of underserved patients with severe and critical conditions. We believe that in doing this, it will make us stronger and more innovative. We invest in human resources programs designed to develop capabilities to deliver on our critical business priorities. We do this by offering competitive pay and benefit programs, investing in our employees' growth and development and creating a safe and healthy work environment. We embrace diversity and empower each individual employee to bring their whole, authentic self to work. Further, we encourage and support our employees to be active members of their communities.

We employ a multi-national workforce of approximately 2,800 people as of December 31, 2021. As an innovative biopharmaceutical company, 21.7% of our employees are field-based and work across multiple countries engaging with healthcare professionals and facilities. Our products are developed by a workforce with specialized degrees in science, engineering and technology. Our manufacturing and distribution locations across the U.S., Ireland and Japan make up 52.8% of our workforce; 25.5% of our employees work within our science and technology and corporate services locations of Hampton, New Jersey; Hazelwood, Missouri; Webster Groves, Missouri; Staines, U.K. and Dublin, Ireland. Of our total workforce, 99.2% are full time.

Employee Benefits and Well-being 

We believe in providing comprehensive and competitive benefits our employees value, designed to be equitable and meet their diverse and unique needs. We are intentional about building inclusivity into our benefits strategy.

In the U.S., Mallinckrodt provides:

•Up to four weeks of paid caregiver leave to help eligible employees deal with family responsibilities;

•Medications at zero employee cost to promote medication adherence for certain chronic medical conditions; and

•Fertility benefits that provide equitable benefits to same-sex couples.

Mallinckrodt also offers a variety of advocacy support resources for employees and their families, including:

•Clinical support for infertility, maternity, oncology, inpatient care, musculoskeletal conditions, congenital heart disease and transplant situation;

•Second opinion services for new or existing medical issues by board-certified, elite specialists at zero cost to employees; and

•Behavioral Health Advocacy to assist employees and their families with complex behavioral health concerns.

Additionally we leverage our well-being platform by collaborating with our diversity focused Business Resource Groups ("BRGs") to provide resources and activities to support their specific goals.

During the pandemic, we have continued to listen to the needs of employees and their families and have responded by implementing new resources and enhanced benefits. 

Talent Development and Employee Engagement 

We are committed to a culture of continuous learning, aimed at advancing our workforce through personal and professional development. Our talent strategies are aligned to business priorities creating opportunities for our employees to grow and develop. We offer a wide range of leadership and individual development offerings, inclusive of but not limited to, tuition reimbursement, mentoring programs, individual development planning, networking and professional coaching that is in-person and/or remote. We partner with external organizations and invest in programs specifically aimed at advancing diverse talent. We have established processes to identify and align individual employee aspirations with business needs so that development and succession planning can occur. These processes have yielded positive results in the advancement of high potential and diverse talent. We create opportunities to advance our talent through development assignments, on-the-job training and career advancement. Our learning platforms are designed to provide flexibility to meet the needs, interests and aspirations of all employees. 

At Mallinckrodt, we value employee feedback. We are intentional about creating a culture where employees can speak freely and are empowered to ask questions. We create opportunities to solicit feedback from employees through one-on-one sessions, focus groups and employee surveys. These forums have and will continue to provide us the opportunity to ensure our employees are engaged and supported both personally and professionally. The introduction of hybrid working in 2021 is just one example of a program that was derived as a result of employee feedback. 

18

Inclusion and Diversity ("I&D") 

We strive to foster an inclusive work environment and a diverse workforce that reflects the customers and patients we serve. We believe the unique and diverse perspectives of our employees enable us to better understand and respond to our patients' needs.

Our workforce is built on the foundation of equal opportunity and fair treatment. As a multi-national company, we celebrate the diversity of our workforce. Our employee-led I&D Council and BRGs play key roles in cultivating and inspiring a more inclusive culture. These groups are open to anyone and are typically centered on shared interests, identities and affiliations. Our BRGs provide resources for professional development, personal growth, community engagement, well-being and networking, all while fostering connectivity and enhancing our unique culture.

Our approach to I&D continues to receive national recognition, most recently being recognized as a "Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality" for six consecutive years from the Human Rights Campaign Foundation's Corporate Equity Index.

Social and Community Responsibility 

Giving back to local communities has been a long-standing tradition of ours for more than 150 years. Our culture of philanthropy stretches beyond simply doing good for others; it's about driving meaningful changes in our communities to make a positive impact on the world. Our social impact strategy focuses on improving the health and well-being of patients, building stronger communities, and empowering our employees to dedicate their time and resources to the causes they care about most. We provide grants to nonprofits worldwide and support employees with their own philanthropy through volunteerism and giving programs. 

Corporate Charitable Giving Program 

Mallinckrodt provides patient-related and philanthropic support to nonprofit organizations that are aligned with our mission to address unmet needs with innovative solutions. Our patient-centric charitable contributions support initiatives and programs that have broad public benefit and advance medical care and/or patient care within the Company's therapeutic areas of focus. Our community-based investments are centered in three strategic areas – improving health and wellness; advancing science, technology, engineering and mathematics ("STEM") education; and stimulating jobs and economic growth in life sciences. 

Throughout the pandemic we have contributed to efforts to advance health equity in research, treatment, patient experience and health outcomes for Black, Indigenous and people of color. We are collaborating with patient advocacy organizations to improve engagement with these communities and promote greater awareness of health disparities in our key therapeutic areas of focus. For example, Mallinckrodt has supported:

•NephCure Kidney International to launch a new Health Equity Initiative aimed at creating more equitable access to research and care for underrepresented individuals living with, or are at high risk of developing, chronic kidney diseases. 

•The Arthritis Foundation to improve health outcomes for populations that have traditionally been inadequately represented in research, treatment and policy. 

In 2021, we supported STEM education and expanded educational opportunities for minority students to help combat the lingering disparities in education. Examples of 2021 grant support include:

•Students 2 Science, a New Jersey-based nonprofit that inspires and educates students in underserved communities to pursue STEM careers. 

•The St. Louis Black Authors of Children's Literature, a nonprofit in St. Louis, Missouri that spearheads the Believe Project – which builds literacy labs in schools and community centers that provide kids consistent access to black children's literature as a strategy for improving reading proficiency. 

•Maydm, Inc., a nonprofit in Madison, Wisconsin that provides girls and youth of color in grades 6-12 with skill-based training in STEM fields. 

Employee Giving and Volunteerism

We believe that our employees are the cornerstone of our corporate citizenship efforts, and we provide opportunities for them to embrace their passions and amplify their philanthropic impact. Our volunteerism program provides eight hours of paid time off to eligible employees annually for qualified volunteer activities, in addition to time off to participate in our global month of service that's held every October. To encourage charitable giving, we match U.S. employee donations to eligible nonprofit organizations. We also activate special matching opportunities during times of disaster or crisis.

19

Available Information

Our website address is mallinckrodt.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this filing. We make available to the public on our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Our reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.

We use our website at mallinckrodt.com as a channel of distribution of important company information, such as press releases, investor presentations and other financial information. We also use our website to expedite public access to time-critical information regarding our company in advance of or in lieu of distributing a press release or a filing with the SEC disclosing the same information. Therefore, investors should look to the Investor Relations page of our website for important and time-critical information. Visitors to our website can also register to receive automatic e-mail and other notifications alerting them when new information is made available on the Investor Relations page of our website.

Item 1A.Risk Factors.