PART I  

Item 1.  

Business. 

Background and Business Overview  

Nielsen serves the world’s media and content ecosystem and is a global leader in audience measurement, data and analytics. Through our understanding of people and their behaviors across all channels and platforms, we empower our clients with independent and actionable intelligence so they can connect and engage with their audiences—now and into the future.  

We provide a holistic and objective understanding of the media industry to our various client segments. Our data is used by our publishing clients to understand their audiences, establish the value of their advertising inventory and maximize the value of their content. Our data is used by our marketer and advertiser agency clients to plan and optimize their spend and is used by our content creator clients to inform decisions and identify trends. 

An S&P 500 company, we have operations in more than 55 countries, with our registered office located in Oxford, the United Kingdom and headquarters located in New York, United States. 

Our Differentiators  

•  

Inclusion and representation. Our data is representative of the entire media ecosystem. All of our products have been reviewed to ensure they are representative of diverse populations, and we have launched intelligence into the marketplace on the value of audience representation. Our combined approach of big data and granular insights from Nielsen’s people-based panel offers greater demographic representation, higher quality and more actionable insights for better decision making. 

•  

Breadth of Offerings. Our measurement, data and analytics solutions, which have been developed through substantial investment over many decades, are deeply embedded into our clients’ workflows and offers a 360-degree view of the audience that we believe can’t be found by a single provider anywhere else. With products that span the full marketing cycle, we believe Nielsen is uniquely positioned to help marketers drive growth with the confidence drive growth with the confidence that they are spending their dollars efficiently and effectively.  

•  

Enhanced Data Assets and Measurement Science. Our extensive portfolio of consumer behavioral and transactional data enables us to provide critical information to our clients. For decades, we have employed advanced measurement methodologies that yield statistically accurate information about consumer behavior. We continue to enhance our core competency in measurement science by improving research approaches and investing in new methodologies. We are uniquely committed to measuring people, not just machines. We are the only company with a high-quality probability sample for measuring video. Our big data sets are validated by behaviors of over 100,000 people on our panels, uniquely allowing us to provide persons-level measurement that is representative of all audiences. 

•  

Global Scale and Brand. We are the currency of choice in the U.S. media market and uniquely positioned to deliver the most reliable deduplication metrics across linear and digital platforms. We believe our footprint, independence, credibility and leading market positions will continue to contribute to our long-term growth and strong operating margins in the evolving global media landscape.  

•  

Strong, Diversified Client Relationships. Many of the world’s largest and emerging media companies, marketers and advertising agencies rely on us as their information and analytics provider to create value for their business. We have historically generated stable revenue streams that are characterized by multi-year contracts and high renewal rates. Approximately 80% of the revenue base for the upcoming year is committed under contract at the beginning of each year. Our top five clients represented approximately 23% and 22% of our revenue, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 and no customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue in 2021. The average length of relationship with our top five clients is more than 30 years.  

•  

Scalable Operating Model. Our global presence and operating model allow us to scale our services and solutions rapidly and efficiently. We have a long track record of establishing leading services that can be quickly expanded across clients, markets and geographies. Our flexible architecture allows us to incorporate leading third-party technologies as well as data from external sources, and enables our clients to use our technology and solutions on their own technology platforms.  

3 

The Market & Industry Trends  

We believe companies, including our clients, require an increasing amount of data and analytics to set strategy and direct operations as competition for audiences’ time and spend intensifies. This has resulted in a large market for business information and insight, which we believe will continue to grow with our clients, predominantly media publishers and advertisers and their agencies, although we see demand increasing for content creators, owners, distributors and other ecosystem participants as well. We may not be able to realize these opportunities if these trends do not continue or if we are otherwise unable to execute our strategies. See Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Our Business and Industry – We may be unable to adapt to significant technological changes which could adversely affect our business” and “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Operating a Global Business – Our international operations are exposed to risks which could impede growth in the future.”  

●  

The landscape is dynamic and changing. Consumers are rapidly changing their media consumption patterns and the proliferation of new formats and channels such as mobile devices, over the top (“OTT”) delivery of content that is not delivered through cable or satellite connections, a subset of which is connected television (“CTV”) that includes so-called smart tv’s and plug-in sticks and boxes, social networks, digital audio & podcasting, and other forms of user-generated media has led to increased time spent with media. In addition, simultaneous usage of more than one screen is becoming a regular aspect of daily consumer media consumption. We believe our distinct ability to provide independent cross-media audience measurement and metrics helps clients better understand, adapt to and profit from the continued transformation of the global media landscape.  

●  

Consumers are more connected, informed and in control. More than three-quarters of the world’s homes have access to television and there are approximately 3.5 billion internet users around the globe. Advances in technology have given consumers a greater level of control of when, where and how they consume information and interact with media and brands. These shifts in behavior create significant complexities for our clients. Our broad portfolio of measurement and analytical services enables our clients to engage consumers with more impact and efficiency and to actively participate in and shape conversations with their audiences.  

●  

Increasing amounts of consumer information are leading to new marketing approaches. The advent of the internet and digital platforms has created rapid growth in consumer data that is expected to intensify as more entertainment and commerce are delivered across these platforms. As a result, companies are looking for real-time access to more granular levels of data to understand growth opportunities more quickly and more precisely. This presents a significant opportunity for us to work with companies to effectively manage, integrate and analyze large amounts of information and extract meaningful insights that allow marketers to generate profitable growth. At the same time, we are managing the challenges brought on by a mix of legislative and business policies made in response to increasing consumer privacy concerns to ensure we continue to produce and deliver our services. 

According to eMarketer, U.S. TV ad spend is expected to grow to approximately $68.9 billion in 2022, up from $67.5 billion in 2021. Our audience estimates are the primary metrics used to determine the value of programming and advertising in the U.S. television advertising marketplace. Including the U.S., our technology is used to measure television viewing in 37 countries. We also measure markets that account for approximately 70% of global TV ad spend and offer measurement and analytic services in more than 55 countries, including the U.S.  

 In addition, according to eMarketer, U.S. digital ad spend will grow to approximately $220.9 billion in 2022, up from $191.1 billion in 2021. Nielsen Digital Ad Ratings are used by 21 of the top 25 global advertisers by total ad spend to help determine the effectiveness of their digital spend and we continue to expand coverage, with the ability to measure approximately 90% of total video digital spend across computer, mobile, and CTV. 

Lastly, according to eMarketer, U.S. radio ad spend is expected to be $11.9 billion in 2022, up from $11.2 billion in 2021. Our audience estimates are also the primary metrics used to determine the value of programming and advertising in the U.S. radio advertising marketplace.  

Our History 

Our Company was founded in 1923 by Arthur C. Nielsen, Sr., who invented an approach to measuring competitive sales results that made the concept of “market share” a practical management tool. Initially focused on the consumer packaged goods industry, for more than half a century, we have advanced the practice of media audience measurement to provide our clients a better understanding of their consumers. In January 2011, we consummated an initial public offering of our common stock and our shares started trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “NLSN”. On August 31, 2015, Nielsen N.V., a Dutch public company listed on the New York Stock Exchange, merged with Nielsen Holdings plc, by way of a cross-border merger under the European Cross-Border Merger Directive, with Nielsen Holdings plc being the surviving company (the “Merger”). The Merger effectively changed the place  

4 

of incorporation of Nielsen’s publicly traded parent holding company from the Netherlands to England and Wales, with no changes made to the business being conducted by Nielsen prior to the Merger.  

On March 5, 2021, we completed the previously announced sale of our Global Connect business (such business, “Global Connect,” and the sale of Global Connect, the “Connect Transaction”) to affiliates of Advent International Corporation (“Purchaser”), pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 31, 2020 (the “Stock Purchase Agreement”). We received net proceeds of $2.4 billion on March 5, 2021 and recorded a gain of $489 million net of tax, inclusive of closing adjustments, during the year ended December 31, 2021. Proceeds from the sale were primarily utilized for debt repayment. See Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements– Discontinued Operations. 

Pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement, we entered into certain ancillary agreements at the closing of the Connect Transaction pursuant to which, among other things, we and Purchaser (i) have provided, and will continue to provide, certain transitional services to each other for periods of up to 24 months following the closing, and (ii) granted each other reciprocal licenses for certain data and corresponding services relating to that data for periods of up to five years following the closing.  

The results of operations of Global Connect have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Following the sale of Global Connect, our continuing business operates as a single operating segment and a single reportable segment. 

Services and Solutions   

We provide viewership and listening measurement data and analytics primarily to media publishers and marketers and their advertising agencies for linear television, streaming, digital (which includes computer, mobile and CTV) and listening platforms.  

Our business consists of two major product categories: One Measurement Solutions, or “Measurement,” and Impact Marketing Solutions / Gracenote Content Solutions, or “Impact / Content”. Previously, Measurement was referred to as “Audience Measurement” and Impact / Content was referred to as “Outcomes / Content.” The updated names are a result of Nielsen’s corporate rebranding which reflects the company’s transformation and focus on the global future of media. There is no change to the reporting structure.  

One Measurement Solutions 

Our measurement solutions have evolved along with changes in consumer viewing and listening behavior, enabling Nielsen to capture consumption of ads and content across all available platforms and mediums.  

 Cross-Media Measurement 

In December 2020, we announced our plans to launch a single, cross-media solution, Nielsen ONE, to drive more comparable and comprehensive metrics across platforms. Our transformative cross-media solution will evolve the current metrics that underpin the more than $100 billion video advertising ecosystem using a phased approach. 

With Nielsen ONE, advertisers and publishers will be able to transact using a single metric across linear, digital and streaming that is trusted, independent and standardized across the industry. With a single, deduplicated number, advertisers will have visibility into total video consumption regardless of platform or device, along with a better understanding of unique audiences, the ability to better understand frequency and reduce double counting, inflated metrics and advertising waste.  Publishers will be able to provide more ad options for buyers and improve the overall viewer experience. Nielsen ONE will also underpin our Impact Marketing Solutions, thus enabling the industry to optimize media plans and maximize performance across platforms. 

 Television Audience Measurement 

We are a global leader in television audience measurement. In the U.S., which is the world’s largest market for television programming, broadcasters and cable networks use our television audience estimates as a primary currency of choice to establish the value of their airtime and more effectively schedule and promote their programming. Advertisers use this information to plan television advertising campaigns, evaluate the effectiveness of their commercial messages and negotiate advertising rates.  

We provide two principal television measurement services in the U.S.: measurement of national television audiences and measurement of local television audiences in local television markets.  

Our approach combines the scale of big data from set-top-boxes and smart TVs, and granular insights from real people through our household panel to deliver comprehensive measurement. Our television panels ensure inclusion across all platforms including cable, satellite, multichannel video programming distributors (“MVPD”), Over-the-air, OTT streaming, and Out-of-Home (“OOH”). A robust panel is a critical component of our approach in integrating big data into our measurement set. Representative, people-powered panels ensure big data is fully inclusive and representative of the country’s evolving demographics. Leveraging U.S. census data and probability sampling, our panels allow us to accurately represent the evolving face of America as big data alone is known to under-represent multicultural communities.  

5 

Using our modernized panel, best-in-class machine learning models and our ID resolution system, Nielsen delivers audience behavior metrics allowing for a more complete view of the media marketplace. We meticulously choose our panel households using the U.S. Census as a model in order to generate our national and local audience estimates and provide our panel households with Nielsen’s proprietary electronic meters. These methods enable us to collect not only television device viewing data but also the demographics of the audience (i.e., who in the household is watching), from which we calculate statistically reliable estimates of total television viewership. We have made significant investments over decades to build an infrastructure that can accurately and efficiently track television audience viewing, a process that has become increasingly complex as the industry has converted to digital transmission and integrated new technologies allowing for developments such as time-shifted viewing. 

Our measurement techniques are constantly evolving to account for new television viewing behavior, increased fragmentation and new media technologies. For example, to help advertisers and programmers understand time-shifted viewing behavior, we created the Average Commercial Minute (ACM) ratings, which are a measure of how many people watch commercials during live and time-shifted viewing, through 3 days (“C3”), 7 days (“C7”), and up to 35 days. The C3 and C7 ratings are currently a primary metric for buying and selling advertising on national television. As TV and digital converge, we are evolving our measurement solutions with the planned launch of Nielsen ONE. Nielsen ONE will deliver metrics at sub minute intervals for individual ads, called Nielsen Individual Commercial Metrics, and content, providing greater comparability across platforms and ad models. We intend to fully transition the industry to cross-media metrics by the Fall 2024 season.  

Strategic data integrations with DIRECTV, DISH, Vizio, and Roku add millions of devices across smart TVs and set-top boxes and will enhance our national television measurement approach. Nielsen will calibrate tune-in and exposure data from MVPD and smart TV original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) against its people-powered panel to correct for bias and create robust persons-level data for more granular and stable measurement. With reconciled metrics from Nielsen, the industry will be able to transact on and better monetize all advertising impressions and further drive adoption of addressable advertising.  

Industry trends support the growing demand for linear addressable measurement at scale across publishers and advertisers as media buyers look to engage with viewers in live, linear, on-demand and streaming environments. The addition of linear addressable impressions to national television measurement will help unlock new value and flexibility for publishers and advertisers to insert addressable ads in any commercial minute they choose. Through Nielsen’s measurement of both targeted and linear audiences, advertisers can better monetize advertising impressions without risking measurement of linear audiences.  

We have integrated broadband only (“BBO”) homes into local television measurement. The inclusion of BBO homes ensures a comprehensive and complete measurement of all TV viewers across the U.S. in not just national but local markets. To accurately reflect viewing, we also made impressions the default metric in our reporting systems, providing buyers and sellers with a consistent framework for combining and comparing metrics across channels and platforms.  

Our technology is used to measure television viewing in 36 countries outside the U.S., including Sweden, Mexico, South Korea, Thailand, New Zealand, Australia, Indonesia, Italy, Poland and most recently, Denmark. The international television audience measurement industry operates on a different model than in the U.S. In many international markets, a joint industry committee of broadcasters in each individual country selects a single official audience measurement provider, which is designated the “currency” through an organized bidding process that is typically revisited every several years.  

  Digital Audience Measurement 

We are a global provider of digital audience measurement across computers, mobile and streaming via connected devices. We employ a variety of measurement offerings in the various markets in which we operate to provide media companies, marketers and brands with metrics to better understand the behavior of digital audiences. In early 2021, Nielsen introduced its new digital methodology which underpins its digital measurement suite. The new methodology leverages Nielsen’s media panel truth sets, census data collection technology, proprietary bias correction and calibration models and diverse third-party partner assets. A proprietary network of walled gardens and platform data providers provide a global footprint that taps into rich audience data to capture volumetrics and demographics, while a large ecosystem of publishers across the open web provide scaled data that is augmented with Nielsen verified demographics.  

Digital Ad Ratings (“DAR”) provides age and gender audience demographics, with key metrics such as reach, frequency, Gross Rating Points and on-target percentage. DAR is used in 38 countries, with South Korea, Denmark and Sweden being the most recent markets to launch.  

Streaming Measurement 

According to The Gauge, Nielsen’s monthly total TV and streaming snapshot, as of December 2021, consumers now spend over a quarter of their total TV time engaging with streaming content. To address this growing part of the media landscape, we have a comprehensive suite of streaming solutions, providing content creators, platforms, studios and advertisers with a view of who is streaming, what they’re watching, which platforms consumers are gravitating to and how much time they are spending with streaming content. Media buyers and sellers can make critical decisions around ad strategies and how best to target their desired audiences.  

6 

Content creators and studios can make informed programming and content distribution decisions to reach key demographics. Streaming services can prove their audience profile against competitors and guide content and subscriber acquisition strategies. 

Nielsen Streaming Platform Ratings uses people-powered panels and proprietary metering technology to measure what content is streamed, the device used to stream (i.e., smart TVs, connected devices, video game consoles) and the streaming source application. Nielsen Streaming Content Ratings delivers program and episode-level measurement. Nielsen’s DAR for CTV delivers audience measurement for streaming ads on CTV devices, with the ability to measure 75% of CTV media spend in the U.S.  

Nielsen Streaming Signals, launched in January 2022, is a real-time, pre-ad insertion signal of who is watching what TV content within a household. By providing person-level demographic predictions of who is watching CTV content (that can include age, gender, race, ethnicity, and geography), we enable more precise and efficient targeted advertising by our CTV clients.  

 Audio Audience Measurement 

We provide independent measurement and consumer research primarily servicing radio, advertisers and advertising agencies in the audio industry. We estimate the size and composition of radio audiences in local markets and of audiences to network radio programming and commercials in the U.S. We refer to our local and network radio audience ratings services, collectively, as our “syndicated radio ratings services.” We provide our syndicated radio ratings services in local markets in the U.S. to radio broadcasters, advertising agencies, and advertisers. Our national services estimate the size and demographic composition of national radio audiences and the size and composition of audiences of network radio programs and commercials. Broadcasters use our data primarily to price and sell advertising time, and advertising agencies and advertisers use our data in purchasing advertising time.  

We have developed our electronic Portable People MeterTM (“PPM”) technology, which we deploy across many of our customer offerings and have licensed to other media information services companies to use in their media audience ratings services in countries outside of the U.S. We have commercialized our PPM ratings service in 48 of the largest radio markets in the U.S. Nielsen's PPM technology is also used commercially for national television OOH, as well as integrated into local television measurement as of 2019 in 44 local markets.  

Impact Marketing Solutions / Gracenote Content Solutions  

 Impact Marketing Solutions 

Our impact solutions validate how effectively marketers invested to reach and influence audiences to take certain actions such as endorse a brand, subscribe to a service or make a purchase. Our portfolio spans pre-flight advertising intelligence and cross-platform media planning, in-flight audience activation and post-flight advertising effectiveness measurement. Marketers leverage Nielsen modeling in subsequent investment decisions. 

We offer over 20,000 syndicated segments representing different demographics, psychographics, media consumption and buying behavior along with thousands of additional custom segments. These audience segments describe individuals with a high propensity of exhibiting future behaviors such as purchasing a specific car model, a financial product, airline tickets and more. We enable these segments in a vast array of platforms currently connected to Nielsen’s Data Management Platform. 

The Nielsen Marketing Cloud is our platform for the custom creation of audiences and activation of those audiences for digital campaign delivery. It combines our data, analytics, media planning, marketing activation and data management platform capabilities in a single cloud platform. We also offer thousands of turnkey syndicated segments that are ID agnostic and are also widely available across platforms outside of the Nielsen Marketing Cloud. Our clients can connect directly to our Nielsen Marketing Cloud to identify desired syndicated targeting or create custom targets using their own first party data, unlocking the unique target combinations and using our insights as analytics and ROI tools.  

Nielsen Ad Intel provides competitive advertising intelligence across traditional and digital media in 35 markets around the globe and can provide information for more than 80 markets globally. By providing comprehensive estimated ad spend across media channels, markets and brand/campaigns, we furnish clients with unique insights for competitive intel. These insights include brand and advertising creative activity for shifts in advertising spend among media types, channels and brands, and for advertising sales lead generation. In the U.S., Ad Intel determines the commercial minutes for the national television currency. Internationally, clients utilize Ad Intel’s ad spend as a secondary measure to the television currency. 

Nielsen Media Impact is an omni-channel planning system, providing insights about target audiences across platforms and devices, to optimize media plans to achieve advertising campaign objectives. In the U.S., Nielsen Media Impact is fueled by Total Media Fusion, a granular, comprehensive data set of audiences and media behaviors across TV, subscription-video-on-demand, TV  

7 

connected devices, ad supported CTV, digital, radio and print, designed specifically for media planning and analytics. Nielsen Media Impact is available in the U.S. and globally. We also offer Local Nielsen Media Impact, a local planning system, in the US.  

Nielsen Audience Planner is an always-on solution that enables first-party audience segments to efficiently flow across systems to serve the various stages of the media planning and buying process. Users can upload first-party audience data and match it to Nielsen’s audience measurement data, resulting in the creation of unlimited audience profiles on-the-fly. Newly created segments can flow seamlessly across multiple systems and workflows including in-house, third-party or Nielsen solutions for further analysis or data-driven linear deals. 

Our flagship solution, Total Media Resonance, offers cross-channel comparisons and uncovers the point when spend becomes less effective, for insight into how to truly optimize campaigns. We also deliver custom and platform-specific brand effectiveness solutions for popular platforms such as digital, podcast and CTV. Nielsen Resonance solutions deliver campaign effectiveness results across a range of coverage options (e.g., platforms, influencers, creatives, content type, and spend) in virtually any market or target audience where there are enough sample survey respondents and can answer how well a marketing campaign resonates with a target audience by using brand funnel metrics like awareness, consideration, intent and loyalty.  

Nielsen Campaign Lift makes a direct connection between the media people consume and the products they buy. Our solution uses credit and debit sales data, loyalty card data and/or store data to measure campaign performance. Campaign Lift allows marketers to measure how exposure to advertising impacts return on ad sales and consumer purchase behavior, including average spend, trip frequency and more, to maximize the revenue outcome of advertising initiatives.  

Nielsen Marketing Mix Modeling enables companies of all sizes and advertiser categories to understand past trends, predict the future effect of marketing tactics on sales and optimize budget allocation across channels, brands and regions.  

Nielsen Compass delivers agile, economic and fast outcome measurement at scale globally. Nielsen Compass is a robust normative advertising outcomes dataset, powered annually by 1,200+ Nielsen Marketing Mix models across over 50 countries, 125 categories and over 500 brands and $10 Billion in ad spend. 

Nielsen Multi-Touch Attribution collects persons-level performance data from addressable marketing channels and devices. Advanced analytic models measure the influence of every addressable channel and granular tactic on multiple success metrics and key audience segments. With some models updated as often as daily, marketers use near real-time data to optimize marketing tactics and media spend allocation while campaigns are still in-flight. 

 We have pioneered the transition of demographic only insights to purchase behavior enhanced metrics, delivering the broadest and deepest coverage of ROI and Media Planning across various industries, including, but not limited to, Consumer Packaged Goods (“CPG”), Restaurant, Retail, Travel and Pharmacy as well as agencies and publishers. We deliver on the deepest granular insights against single source matched, demographically corrected viewership data. NCSolutions (“NCS”), our joint venture with Catalina Marketing Corporation, and Nielsen Buyer Insights product suites are utilized by many major media companies in the U.S. for Upfronts, research, industry events and everyday negotiations. NCS enables clients in the CPG industry to activate on their best customers based on actual prior purchases data and match that to the very same shopper's media exposure, then measure the sales impact of the campaign.  

Nielsen Sports is a global leader in sports media valuation, data intelligence and strategy and insights. Nielsen provides brands and sports rights holders the knowledge to (1) identify, connect and grow audiences and (2) understand the value of sponsorship to drive commercial growth. Nielsen Sports Connect (“Sports Connect”) delivers unified media valuation across platforms and screens by bringing together metrics from linear TV, digital, social and print. Sports Connect provides holistic exposure value for all sponsorship assets, data that is used to understand and benchmark media exposure performance across sponsorship assets, markets and social posts. Nielsen Fan Insights (“NFI”) provides a comprehensive view into sports fans’ interests, claimed media behavior, brand attitudes and purchasing habits. NFI data includes what fans are buying, listening to and watching across media sources.  

 Gracenote Content Solutions 

Through Gracenote Content Solutions, we provide entertainment metadata, content identifiers (“IDs”) and related offerings to the world’s leading content creators, distributors and platforms. At its core, we help customers connect their users with digital entertainment to drive engagement and loyalty. Gracenote data and solutions enable intuitive content navigation, search, discovery and recommendations capabilities ensuring people can easily consume the TV shows, movies, music and sports they love. This data also enables powerful analytics solutions, which help inform decisions around content development, acquisition and distribution.  

Gracenote’s metadata, services and technologies help customers make media more accessible to and discoverable by audiences across all platforms, products and services. Using a combination of machine learning and human editors, Gracenote creates, collects,  

8 

normalizes and organizes the world’s entertainment data across TV shows, movies, celebrities, sports, teams, athletes, artists, albums and tracks. Gracenote IDs are widely deployed throughout the entertainment ecosystem, enabling cross platform linking and universal search across video content. Our global entertainment data portfolio features descriptions of more than 100 million music tracks, factual data and imagery for tens of millions of video programs, as well as statistics across more than 70 sports. Additionally, as of the end of 2021, over 250 million vehicles have shipped globally that use Gracenote metadata in their in-car entertainment systems. 

Gracenote’s Advanced Discovery suite of metadata offerings empower customers to deliver next-generation program guides and user interfaces, nuanced content recommendations and powerful voice search capabilities. By enabling highly personalized entertainment experiences, these solutions help video providers from streaming services to MVPDs to consumer electronic device makers increase user engagement and content consumption. 

Gracenote’s latest Analytics suite of offerings are built upon Gracenote content metadata coupled to our audience measurement data. These products, such as Inclusion Analytics, provide insights into the diversity of key cast members in popular programming and audience size and demographic predictions to equip the entertainment industry with information to help maximize value from investments in project development, content licensing and acquisition and global distribution. 

Our Growth Strategy  

We believe we are well-positioned for growth globally and have a multi-faceted digital-first and global-first strategy that aligns with the evolving media landscape. Our growth strategy is also subject to certain risks. For example, we may be unable to adapt to significant technological changes such as changes in the technology used to collect and process data or in methods of media consumption. In addition, consolidation in our customers’ industries may reduce the aggregate demand for our services. See “Risk Factors.”   

Our growth strategy centers around our three strategic pillars: One Measurement Solutions, Impact Marketing Solutions and Gracenote Content Services. 

Continue to develop innovative services that align with the evolving media landscape 

We are continuing to evolve our portfolio to align with ongoing change in the media landscape. This allows us to best empower our clients with independent and actionable intelligence that enables them to connect and engage with their audiences—now and into the future. We are focused on driving new growth from new solutions across all of our end markets. In One Measurement Solutions, we are advancing on our roadmap to deliver a single, cross-media measurement solution, Nielsen ONE that will enable the industry to transact using a single metric across linear, digital and streaming that is trusted, independent and standardized.  

In Impact Marketing Solutions, we are innovating with new services and focused on unlocking the value of connecting measurement of audiences to measurement of impact. In Gracenote Content Services, we are focused on launching new products to help distributors analyze, benchmark and derive insights from their catalogs.  

Continue to attract new clients and expand existing relationships  

We believe that substantial opportunities exist to both attract new clients and to increase our revenue from existing clients across our three essential solutions. Building on our deep knowledge, we expect to sell new and innovative solutions to new and existing clients, increasing our importance to their decision making processes.  

We are delivering Impact Marketing Solutions to advertisers and their agencies in new verticals beyond CPG. 

Continue to grow outside the U.S.  

International revenues comprised approximately 18% of 2021 revenues. Nielsen has a presence in more than 55 countries, which creates an entry point to grow in many of these countries across all three strategic pillars. Many of our clients are global and we have the opportunity to expand internationally with these clients. We expect our international businesses to grow faster than our US business over the next several years.  

Continue to pursue strategic acquisitions to complement our leadership positions  

We have increased our capabilities through investments and acquisitions in the U.S. and international audience measurement, and advertising effectiveness for digital media campaigns. Going forward, we will consider select acquisitions of complementary businesses that enhance our product and geographic portfolio and can benefit from our scale, scope and status as a global leader. 

Technology Infrastructure  

9 

Our technology has undergone a major transformation in the last three years. The majority of the Measurement and Gracenote Infrastructure is Cloud Native and is hosted on Amazon Web Services. The bedrock of our Measurement products is the Media Platform and the Media Data Lake that processes and hosts 25 Petabytes of Nielsen data. The Media Platform plays an instrumental role in meeting service commitments to global clients and allows us to quickly scale our services across practice areas and geographies. The platform utilizes an open approach that facilitates integration of distinct data sets, interoperability with client data and technology, and partnerships with leading technology companies. 

Intellectual Property 

Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and all of our other intellectual property are important assets that afford protection to our business. Our success depends to a degree upon our ability to protect and preserve certain proprietary aspects of our technology and our brand. To ensure that objective, we control and limit access to our proprietary technology. Our employees and consultants enter into confidentiality, non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements with us. We protect our rights to proprietary technology and confidential information in our business arrangements with third parties through confidentiality and other intellectual property and business agreements.  

We hold a number of third-party patent and intellectual property license agreements that afford us rights to third-party patents, technology and other intellectual property. Such license agreements most often do not preclude either party from licensing our patents and technology to others. Such licenses may involve one-time payments or ongoing royalty obligations, and we cannot ensure that future license agreements can or will be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms, or at all.  

Pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement, we entered into certain ancillary agreements at the closing of the Connect Transaction. We granted Purchaser a license to brand its products and services with the “Nielsen” name and other Nielsen trademarks for 20 years following the closing of the Connect Transaction. Additionally, Nielsen and Purchaser entered into agreements pursuant to which, among other things, Nielsen and Purchaser (i) granted each other reciprocal licenses for certain data and corresponding services relating to that data for periods of up to five years following the closing and (ii) granted each other licenses to use certain patents and other intellectual property.  

Competitive Landscape  

There is no single competitor that offers all of the services we offer in all of the markets in which we offer them. We have many competitors worldwide that offer some of the services we provide in selected markets. While we maintain leading positions in many markets in which we operate, our future success will depend on our ability to enhance and expand our suite of services, provide reliable and accurate measurement solutions and related information, drive innovation that anticipates and responds to emerging client needs, strengthen and expand our geographic footprint, and protect consumer privacy. See “Risk Factors –Risks Related to Competition.” We believe our ability to provide an independent, holistic view of the media landscape, our global presence, and our integrated portfolio of services across our three strategic pillars are key assets in our ability to effectively compete in the marketplace.  

We are a clear market leader in U.S. television audience measurement and believe we are uniquely positioned to deliver a single cross-media measurement solution that will deliver comparable and comprehensive metrics across all platforms. However, there are many emerging players and technologies that will increase competitive pressure across our portfolio of solutions. Numerous companies, such as Comscore are attempting to provide alternative forms of television audience measurement using, inter alia, set-top box data and panel-based measurement. Our principal competitor in television audience measurement outside the U.S. is Kantar, with companies such as GfK and Ipsos also providing competition in select individual countries. 

Our primary competitors in the digital audience and campaign measurement space in the U.S. are Comscore, LiveRamp, Oracle, The Trade Desk and iSpot.tv. Our principal competitors globally are Kantar, GFK, and Ipsos. Outside the United States, Kantar, GFK and Ipsos use a variety of electronic and recall based measurement approaches that are similar in some ways to Nielsen's technologies.  

We are the market leader in U.S. audio audience measurement. Our principal competitor for Radio audience measurement in the U.S. is Eastlan Ratings who uses telephone recall based approach and their services are primarily sold in smaller markets. Additionally Triton, a U.S.-based digital competitor, has a streaming Audio and Podcast measurement service that uses server log technology. Triton was acquired by iHeartMedia in February 2021. 

Within the Impact portfolio landscape, vendors have come and gone over the years as large industry changes such as privacy regulation and data deprecation have created massive hurdles for vendors to overcome. In recent years, key competitors include Analytic Partners, Neustar, IpsosMMA, Gain Theory and IRI.  

Gracenote is the premier provider of entertainment metadata globally. On the video and music fronts, we primarily compete with Xperi which owns TiVo. Gracenote also competes with Red Bee Media and Mediapresse mainly in video across a number of international markets. We also sell our products against various single-market competitors and some in-house solutions. Gracenote's competition on the sports front comes from Stats Perform and Sportradar. In the area of content analytics, we compete with Whip Media and Parrot Analytics. 

10 

Regulation  

We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and abroad that involve matters central to our business, many of which are still evolving, and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. These laws and regulations may involve privacy, data use, cross-border data transfers, data protection, intellectual property, securities law, COVID-19 related compliance, taxation, labor laws or other subjects.  

There is a trend toward regulations requiring companies to provide consumers with greater information regarding, and greater control over, how their personal data is used and shared, as well as requiring notification when unauthorized access to such data occurs. 

These privacy and data protection laws and regulations, which in some cases can be enforced by private parties in addition to government entities, are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. As a result, the application, interpretation, and enforcement of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, and may be applied, interpreted and enforced differently in different jurisdictions, and may be inconsistent with our current policies and practices. 

For additional information about government regulation applicable to our business, see Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Privacy” and “ – Risks Relating to Governmental or Regulatory Change” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Environmental, Social & Governance (“ESG”)  

As part of Nielsen's mission to power a better media future for all people, we strive every day to engage our people, processes, data and technology to make Nielsen a more responsible company and to enable a more equitable world, where everyone is included and everyone counts. Nielsen is committed to strengthening the communities and markets in which we live and operate our business, recognizing how important these efforts are to ensure a more equitable and sustainable future. This commitment is supported and expressed at all levels of our organization.  

Our ESG strategy encompasses the most important factors that affect our business, operations and internal and external stakeholders. To determine which ESG issues are of greatest importance to our company and our stakeholders, we regularly conduct an ESG issues assessment, with our fourth such assessment completed in December 2021. We continue to identify and prioritize issues, impacts, risks and opportunities for Nielsen and to develop a more concise input to our ESG strategy. We report across six key topics: diversity, equity and inclusion, human capital, data privacy and security, community engagement, environment and governance.  

While it is the responsibility of all teams within Nielsen to consider relevant ESG impacts in their everyday work, we aim to approach ESG risks and opportunities in a holistic way through our strategy, infusing these considerations into regular engagement with our Board of Directors (the “Board”), Executive Committee leaders, internal working groups, across functional groups and teams and other forums. 

Our Board committees have direct oversight responsibilities for a range of ESG issues, including:  

●  

The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee oversees the Company’s overall ESG matters, including overall ESG strategy, except to the extent reserved for the full Board or another Committee. 

●  

Our Compensation and Talent Committee oversees Nielsen’s human capital management strategies and programs, including overall employee wellness and engagement; strategies in support of diversity, equity and inclusion; talent development and employee experience.  

●  

The Audit Committee has primary oversight for the management of key enterprise risks, including its Compliance & Integrity, Cybersecurity and Privacy programs, and reviews external reporting on ESG in the Company’s financial reports, as appropriate. 

Human Capital Management 

Our key human capital management objectives are to promote the health, wellness, and safety of our employees while building an inclusive and engaging culture where all of our employees have an equal opportunity to reach their full potential.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 15,000 people worldwide, which includes approximately 1,000 part-time employees. We have approximately 6,200 employees in the United States, 1,200 in the remaining Americas, 2,900 in Europe, and 4,500 in the Asia/Pacific/Middle East/Africa (“APMEA”) regions. Approximately 4% of our employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 7% are covered under works council agreements in Europe. 

11 

Oversight and Governance 

The Board, through its Compensation and Talent Committee, provides oversight of key human capital management strategies and programs, including the Company’s diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives. The Compensation and Talent Committee is also responsible for establishing and reviewing the overall compensation philosophy of the Company and making recommendations to the Board in that regard. 

Compensation and Benefits 

Nielsen is committed to providing appropriate, competitive and equitable pay and benefits for all associates, commensurate with the work being performed and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Our associates are rewarded and promoted based on performance against priorities and how they demonstrate the Nielsen values. Our pay philosophy is to provide a total compensation package that is market-competitive based on data provided by independent third parties and that also provides an opportunity for pay growth and role progression based on individual contribution and company performance.  

Talent Development and Associate Engagement 

We work to integrate associates into Nielsen from day one by helping new associate hires understand our culture, be clear on their roles and feel connected to their new team and to the broader Nielsen community. We offer mentoring programs that provide valuable learning, development and networking experiences, matching associates with mentors who can support their personal and professional development objectives. We offer a skill development platform to all employees. 

Our policy is to maintain well-developed communications and consultation programs with all employees and employee representative bodies, including via email communication or regular updates of our internal communication platform and channels. We also inform and consult with recognized unions and works councils as appropriate. We continually seek feedback from our employees through Leadership Townhalls, pulse surveys, and engagement surveys conducted through a third-party provider. 

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 

We power a better media future for all people by embracing, leveraging and incorporating diversity, equity and inclusion into all that we do. When we operate in a culture that is diverse and inclusive, our hope is that innovation flourishes, our clients win, and associates are engaged and collaborate to bring the best that Nielsen can offer to the communities we measure. 

Nielsen’s DE&I strategy covers four pillars:  

People 

•  

We aim to build a globally inclusive and impactful culture at Nielsen. This means increasing diverse representation among employees, providing equitable growth opportunities for diverse employees, hiring from diverse talent pools and expanding our inclusive hiring practices. We set an updated global goal in 2019 to increase the number of women in mid- and senior-leadership from 39% in 2019 to 46% by 2023. In early 2021, targets were also set to increase U.S. Black mid-level and senior level representation and Latino senior level representation by 2023.  

•  

We are investing in diverse talent development programs, including leadership development cohorts to help us meet our representation goals and the Diverse Leadership Network (DLN), a 12-month leadership development program designed to strengthen and diversify our leadership pipeline. 

•  

We support 14 internal business resource groups (“BRGs”), with over 3,500 members around the world. Our BRGs engage employees in programming that drives Nielsen’s advocacy, educational outreach and business growth, which results in increased impact on local business and the communities where we work.  

Product & Thought Leadership 

•  

Building on our role as the trusted source of measurement on media behaviors, content attributes, and industry trends across all platforms, we focus on diverse insights and inclusive intelligence to better understand the audience.  

•  

Through thought leadership, we aim to address the industry’s critical questions around diversity, equity and inclusion, using Nielsen’s products and solutions that measure audiences and content.  

12 

•  

In February 2022, we launched a Diverse Media Equity program. As part of our commitment to creating a better media future for all people, we expect to raise the visibility of diverse-owned media that play a critical role in reaching and representing the increasingly diverse population.  

Business Diversity  

•  

Nielsen’s values—inclusion, courage, growth—are the foundation of our business. Our mission is to buy better: to engage, include and contract with diverse business partners who have the perspectives, expertise and products/services that will help us create a better media future for all people.  

•  

We track and report diverse spend and have multiple policies and processes to support a corporate goal of 15% U.S. spend with diverse businesses by the end of 2022.  

Community Advocacy  

•  

In the markets where we do business, we nurture relationships with community leaders and organizations, such as the LEAD Network and Valuable 500, so that we can best serve diverse communities.  

•  

To ensure that we have an outside-in perspective, we created an External Advisory Council (EAC) representing diverse communities. The EAC provides input, ideas, recommendations and opportunities through a DE&I lens to benefit our people, work, clients and communities. 

Health and Safety 

We maintain a commitment to health and wellbeing. Nielsen’s benefit offerings are designed to meet the varied and evolving needs of a diverse workforce across businesses and geographies. We have enhanced the ways we help our employees care for themselves and their families, especially in response to COVID-19. Our Whole You health and wellbeing program focuses not just on physical health, but also on the emotional, financial, social and environmental well-being of our associates. 

The Whole You well-being program was created in 2015 to provide support for our employees and their families in meaningful, contemporary and progressive ways. Since 2015, the program has evolved to meet the needs of our diverse population globally. Most recently, the program changed to a new virtual delivery method to address the global pandemic reality. The Whole You program offers a mix of US and global initiatives, such as step and activity challenges, webinars and training sessions. A key component of The Whole You is our group of well-being ambassadors (employee volunteers) who promote global, national and local well-being initiatives. 

COVID-19 

We employ several strategies intended to address issues arising during the COVID-19 pandemic, including COVID-19 safety protocols for all employees that are consistent with the guidance of local health authorities, remote working arrangements where possible, company-provided personal protective equipment (PPE) and training, facilities management policies, workplace safety committees, supplemental paid sick leave (U.S.) and ongoing health benefits reviews. We implemented programs to reduce barriers to COVID-19 vaccination access including supplemental paid time off for the purposes of an employee/dependent receiving a vaccine and local partnership to increase access to vaccination, as needed on a market-by-market basis. In addition, Nielsen offers employee emergency financial support through the Nielsen Global Support Fund, through which associates can donate to fellow associates in need and apply for grants in times of personal hardship or natural disaster. 

Available Information  

We file our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements and any amendments to these reports and statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information at http://www.sec.gov. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports are made available free of charge on our website at http://www.nielsen.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference herein and is not a part of this report.  

From time to time, Nielsen may use its website and social media outlets as channels of distribution of material company information. Financial and other material information regarding Nielsen is routinely posted and accessible on our website at http://www.nielsen.com/investors. 

13 

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors