ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section should be read in conjunction with “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in Part II, Item 8 of this 2021 Annual Report and the Company's audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included elsewhere in this 2021 Annual Report. The following “Business Strategy” and “Recent Developments” sections below is a brief presentation of our business and certain significant items addressed in this section or elsewhere in this 2021 Annual Report. This section should be read along with the relevant portions of this 2021 Annual Report for a complete discussion of the events and items summarized below.

Overview

Newell Brands is a leading global consumer goods company with a strong portfolio of well-known brands, including Rubbermaid, FoodSaver, Calphalon, Sistema, Sharpie, Paper Mate, Dymo, EXPO, Elmer’s, Yankee Candle, Graco, NUK, Rubbermaid Commercial Products, First Alert, Spontex, Coleman, Campingaz, Oster, Sunbeam and Mr. Coffee. Newell Brands' beloved brands enhance and brighten consumers lives at home and outside by creating moments of joy, building confidence and providing peace of mind. The Company sells its products in nearly 200 countries around the world and has operations on the ground in over 40 of these countries, excluding third-party distributors.

Business Strategy

The Company is continuing to execute on its turnaround strategy of building a global, next generation consumer products company that can unleash the full potential of its brands in a fast-moving omni-channel environment. The strategy, developed in 2019, is designed to:

•Drive sustainable top line growth by focusing on innovation, sharpening brand positioning, strengthening the international businesses, enhancing digital marketing and omni-channel capabilities, and building customer relationships; 

•Improve operating margins by driving productivity and overhead savings, while reinvesting in the business; 

•Accelerate cash conversion cycle by focusing on cash efficiency and improving key working capital metrics;

26

•Strengthen the portfolio by investing in attractive categories that are aligned with its capabilities and strategy and optimizing product mix; and

•Strengthen organizational capabilities and employee engagement by building a winning team and focusing the best people on the right things.

The Company is implementing this strategy while addressing key challenges such as shifting consumer preferences and behaviors; a highly competitive operating environment; a rapidly changing retail landscape; continued macroeconomic and political volatility; significant inflationary and supply chain pressures, and an evolving regulatory landscape. The coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and its impact to the Company’s business resulted in the acceleration of the turnaround initiatives in many respects.

Continued execution of these strategic imperatives, in combination with new initiatives aimed to build operational excellence, will better position the Company for long-term sustainable growth. One such initiative that was announced in the third quarter of 2021 is Project Ovid, a multi-year, customer centric supply chain initiative to transform the Company's go-to-market capabilities in the U.S., improve customer service levels and drive operational efficiencies. This initiative is expected to leverage technology to further simplify the organization by harmonizing and automating processes. Project Ovid is designed to optimize the Company’s distribution network by creating a single integrated supply chain from 23 business-unit-centric supply chains. The initiative is intended to reduce administrative complexity, improve inventory and invoicing workflow for our customers and enhance product availability for consumers through omni-channel enablement. This new operating model is also expected to drive efficiencies by better utilizing the Company's transportation and distribution network. 

Organizational Structure

The Company’s five primary operating segments are as follows:

SegmentKey BrandsDescription of Primary Products

Commercial SolutionsBRK, First Alert, Mapa, Quickie, Rubbermaid, Rubbermaid Commercial Products, and SpontexCommercial cleaning and maintenance solutions; closet and garage organization; hygiene systems and material handling solutions; connected home and security and smoke and carbon monoxide alarms

Home AppliancesCalphalon, Crockpot, Mr. Coffee, Oster and SunbeamHousehold products, including kitchen appliances

Home SolutionsBall (1), Calphalon, Chesapeake Bay Candle, FoodSaver, Rubbermaid, Sistema, WoodWick and Yankee CandleFood and home storage products; fresh preserving products; vacuum sealing products; gourmet cookware, bakeware and cutlery and home fragrance products

Learning and DevelopmentAprica, Baby Jogger, Dymo, Elmer’s, EXPO, Graco, Mr. Sketch, NUK, Paper Mate, Parker, Prismacolor, Sharpie, Tigex, Waterman and X-ActoBaby gear and infant care products; writing instruments, including markers and highlighters, pens and pencils; art products; activity-based adhesive and cutting products and labeling solutions

Outdoor and RecreationCampingaz, Coleman, Contigo, ExOfficio, and MarmotProducts for outdoor and outdoor-related activities

(1) 

 and Ball®, TM of Ball Corporation, used under license.

This structure reflects the manner in which the chief operating decision maker regularly assesses information for decision-making purposes, including the allocation of resources. The Company also provides general corporate services to its segments which is reported as a non-operating segment, Corporate. See Footnotes 1 and 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

27

Recent Developments

Sale of Connected Home & Security Business

On February 6, 2022, the Company signed a definitive agreement to sell its Connected Home & Security (“CH&S”) business unit to Resideo Technologies, Inc., for a purchase price of $593 million, subject to customary working capital and transaction adjustments. The transaction is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2022, subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval. 

See Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Footnotes 1 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Coronavirus (COVID-19)

The COVID-19 pandemic, which began in late 2019, has continued to disrupt the Company’s global operations, similar to those

of many large, multi-national corporations in three primary areas:

Supply chain. Of its 135 manufacturing and distribution facilities, approximately 20 were temporarily closed at the end of the first quarter of 2020, the most significant of which were its South Deerfield, Massachusetts, Home Fragrance plant, its Mexicali, Mexico and India Writing facilities, and its Juarez, Mexico Connected Home and Security facility, all of which were closed in accordance with applicable government guidelines. The majority of the Company’s manufacturing and distribution facilities reopened during the second and third quarter of 2020 and have since been operating at or near capacity with inventory levels replenished. The Company does, however, continue to face significant product, supply and labor shortages, capacity constraints and logistical challenges across its businesses, including port congestion, constrained shipping container availability and delays in carrier pickup, which have negatively impacted the Company's ability to satisfy demand for its products, creating order backlog in a number of categories. The Company also continues to face significantly higher than expected inflation for commodities, primarily resin, sourced finished goods, transportation and labor, which had a negative high-single-digit-percentage impact to costs of products sold for 2021. These various disruptions are expected to persist, at least in the near-term. To help mitigate the negative impact of inflation to the operating performance of its businesses, the Company has secured selective pricing increases, accelerated productivity initiatives and deployed overhead cost containment efforts.

Retail. While the Company’s largest retail customers experienced a surge in sales as their stores remained open, a number of secondary customers, primarily in the specialty and department store channels, temporarily closed their brick and mortar doors in March 2020, and began to reopen in certain regions where conditions improved towards the end of the second quarter of 2020. These dynamics, in combination with some retailers’ prioritization of essential items, have had a meaningful impact on the Company's traditional order patterns. In addition, the Company temporarily closed its Yankee Candle retail stores in North America as of mid-March of 2020 due to COVID-19. These stores reopened by the end of the third quarter of 2020 and have remained open since.

Consumer demand patterns. During the quarantine phase of the pandemic in 2020, consumer purchasing behavior strongly shifted to certain focused categories. Certain of the Company’s product categories benefited from this shift, primarily in Food, Commercial and Home Appliances. Some of the Company’s other businesses were negatively impacted but have seen positive momentum with an increase in demand post lockdowns, in particular Writing, Baby and Home Fragrance. While the seasonality of its businesses reverted to historical trends in 2021, uncertainty still remains over the volatility and direction of future consumer demand patterns.

The Company believes the extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company's future sales, operating results, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition will continue to be driven by numerous evolving factors that the Company cannot accurately predict and which will vary by jurisdiction and market, including severity and duration of the pandemic, the emergence of new strains and variants of the coronavirus, the likelihood of a resurgence of positive cases, the development and availability of effective treatments and vaccines, especially in areas where conditions have recently worsened and work restrictions, operational or travel bans have been reinstituted, the rate at which vaccines are administered to the general public, the timing and amount of fiscal stimulus and relief programs packages that may become available to the general public in the future, and any changes in consumer demand patterns for the Company's products as the impact of the global pandemic lessens.

With the spread of new strains and variants of the coronavirus, the Company continues to monitor developments, including government requirements and recommendations at the national, state, and local level on whether to reinstate and/or extend certain initiatives previously implemented to help contain the spread of COVID-19 and currently plans to mandate vaccinations for its U.S. employees.

28

See Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Estimates and Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Asset Impairments

During the fourth quarter of 2021, in connection with its annual impairment testing, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of $29 million and $31 million associated with tradenames in the Commercial Solutions and Learning and Development segments, respectively. See Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Estimates and Footnotes 1 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Debt Redemption

On November 22, 2021, the Company redeemed its 4.00% senior notes due June 2022 at a redemption price equal to 102% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of the redemption. The total consideration was approximately $259 million, and the Company recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $5 million.

 See Footnote 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

2022 Share Repurchase Program

On February 6, 2022, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a $375 million Share Repurchase Program, effective immediately through the end of 2022. The Company’s common shares may be purchased by the Company in the open market, in negotiated transactions or in other manners as permitted by federal securities laws and other legal requirements.

Results of Operations

Consolidated Operating Results 2021 vs. 2020

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM — NOT MEANINGFUL

Net sales for 2021 increased 13%, with all segments and major geographic regions showing growth. This growth reflects favorable net pricing (including lower promotion spending with customers), as well as strong demand for the hand protection, garage and outdoor organization, kitchen appliance, fresh preserving, cookware, bakeware, scented candle, baby gear, writing, labeling, and outdoor categories. Net sales growth was negatively impacted by supply chain shortages and logistical challenges which the Company expects to continue into 2022. Changes in foreign currency favorably impacted net sales by $101 million, or 1%.

29

Gross profit for 2021 increased 7% and gross profit margin declined to 31.1% as compared with 32.8% in the prior year period. The increase in gross profit was driven by gross volume leverage, gross productivity and favorable net pricing, partially offset by significant input cost inflation for commodities, primarily resin, sourced finished goods, transportation and labor, which had a negative high-single-digit-percentage impact to costs of products sold. The gross margin decline reflected, in part, a timing lag between inflation and the full impact of responsive pricing actions. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted gross profit by $30 million, or 1%. 

Notable items impacting operating income (loss) for 2021 and 2020 are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Restructuring-related costs reported in cost of products sold and selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”) for 2021 were $22 million and $8 million, respectively, and primarily relate to facility closures. Restructuring-related costs reported in cost of products sold and SG&A for 2020 were $4 million and $19 million, respectively, and primarily relate to accelerated depreciation associated with restructuring activities. Restructuring costs for 2021 and 2020 were $16 million and $21 million, respectively. 

(b)Transaction and other costs for 2021 and 2020 primarily related to completed divestitures and fees for certain legal proceedings.

Operating income increased to $946 million in 2021 as compared to an operating loss of $634 million in 2020. The operating results in the prior year period included $1.5 billion of non-cash impairment charges of goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangibles and other assets. The current year performance reflected the gross profit performance noted above and cost savings from Yankee Candle retail store closures, partially offset by higher incentive compensation expense and advertising and promotional costs. The year-over-year comparison of the Company's operating results to the prior year reflects the impact of the most depressed consumption levels resulting from the COVID-19 related lockdowns which occurred in the second quarter of 2020, and the lapping of the improved operating performance in the second half of 2020, as the Company's manufacturing sites and Yankee Candle stores were reopened, other retail stores were reopened, and consumer demand for certain categories returned. In addition, the Company's operating results for 2021 were impacted by the volatility and uncertainty of the direction of demand patterns, as well as continued inflation and supply chain shortages and logistical challenges which the Company expects to continue into 2022.

Interest expense, net for 2021 decreased primarily due to lower debt levels. The weighted average interest rates for 2021 and 2020 were approximately 4.7% and 4.6%, respectively. See Footnote 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

The loss on the extinguishment of debt of $5 million and $20 million for 2021 and 2020, respectively, are related to the Company’s tender offer of certain of its senior notes and debt redemptions. See Footnote 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Other (income) expense, net, for 2021 and 2020 include the following items:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The income tax provision for 2021 was $121 million as compared to benefit of $236 million in 2020. The effective tax rate for 2021 was 17.4% as compared to 23.5% in 2020. The change in effective tax provision is driven primarily by the impact of goodwill impairment charges in the prior-year, the geographic mix of where income was earned as well as certain taxable income inclusion items in the U.S. based on foreign earnings and certain discrete items. The income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2021 included a net valuation allowance decrease of $27 million, primarily related to NOLs in the U.K. and Luxembourg, and other miscellaneous changes in the U.S., state and non-U.S. valuation allowances related to ongoing operations. 

See Footnote 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding income taxes, including the inherent uncertainty associated with the Company's position on U.S. Treasury Regulations enacted in 2020.

30

Business Segment Operating Results 2021 vs. 2020

Commercial Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM - NOT MEANINGFUL

Commercial Solutions net sales for 2021 increased 5% which reflected sales growth in both the Commercial and Connected Home and Security business units. The Commercial business unit performance reflected the impact of favorable net pricing as well as increased demand in the hand protection and garage and outdoor organization categories, partially offset by a decline in demand for consumable washroom products as well as supply chain shortages and logistical constraints. The increase in net sales in the Connected Home and Security business unit was primarily due to higher demand from retail and contractor channels, partially offset by supply chain shortages and logistical constraints. The increase in net sales in the Connected Home and Security business also reflected the lapping of the prior-year impact of lower demand and store closures. Changes in foreign currency favorably impacted net sales by $12 million, or 1%.

Operating income for 2021 increased to $123 million as compared to operating loss of $89 million in 2020. The improvement in operating results is primarily due to the lapping of prior year non-cash impairment charges of certain indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as gross profit leverage, including the lapping of the prior-year absorption impact associated with the temporary closure of a key Connected Home and Security manufacturing facility in Mexico, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, gross productivity and pricing. The increase in operating income was partially offset by significant input cost inflation for commodities, primarily resin, sourced finished goods, transportation and labor. The operating margin in the current year was negatively impacted by a timing lag between inflation and the full impact of responsive pricing actions.

Home Appliances

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM — NOT MEANINGFUL

Home Appliances net sales for 2021 increased 13%, which reflects net pricing and strong sales growth, primarily in North America and Latin America, partially offset by supply chain shortages and logistical constraints. Changes in foreign currency favorably impacted net sales by $11 million, or 1%.

Operating income for 2021 increased to $70 million as compared to operating loss of $238 million in 2020. The improvement in operating results is primarily due to the lapping of prior year non-cash impairment charges of goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as gross profit leverage, most notably from North America and Latin America, gross productivity and pricing, partially offset by significant input cost inflation associated with sourced finished goods and transportation, as well as higher labor costs and advertising and promotional costs. 

31

Home Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM — NOT MEANINGFUL

Home Solutions net sales for 2021 increased 12%, due to strong sales performance in the Food and Home Fragrance business units. The increase in Food business unit sales reflected the impact of favorable net pricing as well as increased demand across the fresh preserving, and cookware and bakeware categories, partially offset by supply chain shortages and logistical constraints. The increase in Home Fragrance sales was primarily due to increases in the retail channel in the U.S. and Europe, as well as, Yankee Candle retail stores, partially offset by supply chain shortages, logistical constraints and permanent Yankee Candle retail store closures in the prior year. The increase in net sales in the Home Fragrance business also reflected the lapping of the prior-year impact of temporary retail store closures and supply chain disruptions resulting from temporary closure of its key manufacturing facility in Massachusetts, both resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Changes in foreign currency favorably impacted net sales by $33 million, or 1%.

Operating income for 2021 increased to $313 million as compared to operating loss of $2 million in 2020. The increase in operating income is primarily due to the lapping of prior year non-cash impairment charges of goodwill, certain indefinite-lived intangible assets and other assets, gross profit leverage, including the lapping of the prior year absorption impact associated with the temporary closure of a key Home Fragrance manufacturing facility in Massachusetts, gross productivity and pricing. The increase in operating income also reflected savings from Yankee Candle retail store closures and the exiting of its fundraising business in the prior year. The increase in operating income was partially offset by significant input cost inflation for commodities, primarily resin, sourced finished goods, transportation and labor. The operating margin in the current year was negatively impacted by a timing lag between inflation and the full impact of responsive pricing actions.

Learning and Development

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Learning and Development net sales for 2021 increased 18% primarily due to strong sales performance in the Baby and Writing business units as they lap the negative prior-year impact of shifting consumer demand, temporary store closures and supply chain disruption resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. The Baby business unit performance reflected favorable net pricing as well as increased demand in the baby gear and infant care categories, driven in part by government-related stimulus spending in the U.S. The Writing business unit performance reflected favorable net pricing as well as strong demand in the pens, markers, fine writing and labeling categories, driven by return to in-person learning and gradual reopening of more offices, partially offset by previous divestitures and business exits as well as supply chain shortages and logistical constraints. Changes in foreign currency favorably impacted net sales by $29 million, or 1%.

32

Operating income for 2021 increased to $594 million as compared to $359 million in the prior year period. The increase in operating income is primarily due to the lapping of prior year non-cash impairment charges of certain indefinite-lived intangible assets, pricing, gross productivity and gross profit leverage, including the prior year absorption impact of certain temporary manufacturing closures, partially offset by higher tariff costs, significant input cost inflation for commodities, primarily resin, sourced finished goods, transportation and labor, as well as higher advertising and promotional costs.

Outdoor and Recreation

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM — NOT MEANINGFUL

Outdoor and Recreation segment net sales for 2021 increased 15% primarily due to favorable net pricing and improvement in consumer purchasing patterns for outdoor equipment, partially offset by supply chain shortages and logistical constraints. The increase in net sales also reflected the lapping of the negative prior-year impact of lower demand and temporary store closures resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Changes in foreign currency favorably impacted net sales by $16 million, or 1%.

Operating income for 2021 was $89 million as compared to operating loss of $420 million in the prior year period. This improvement was primarily due to the lapping of prior year non-cash impairment charges of certain indefinite-lived intangible assets, gross profit leverage, pricing and gross productivity, partially offset by significant input cost inflation for commodities, primarily resin, sourced finished goods and transportation. The operating margin in the current year was negatively impacted by a timing lag between inflation and the full impact of responsive pricing actions. 

33

Consolidated Operating Results 2020 vs. 2019

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM — NOT MEANINGFUL

Net sales for 2020 decreased 3%, due to a decline in sales within Learning and Development and Outdoor and Recreation segments. The Learning and Development segment was impacted by changes in consumer purchasing patterns as well as delays and limited opening of schools and offices caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Net sales in the Outdoor and Recreation segment were impacted by lower overall demand. The net sales decline was partially offset by growth in the Home Appliances, Commercial Solutions and Home Solutions segments due to an increase in demand, notably through online channels. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates unfavorably impacted net sales by $108 million, or 1%.

Gross profit for 2020 decreased 4% and gross profit margin declined to 32.8% as compared with 33.1% in 2019. The gross margin decline was driven by higher costs associated with lower sales volume and certain temporary manufacturing closures, primarily during the first half of 2020, as well as business unit mix and inflation related to input costs. The decline in gross margin also reflected increased costs across most of its business units related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including increased employee costs, such as expanded benefits and frontline incentives, and other costs, such as procurement of personal protective equipment. The gross profit decline was partially offset by the cumulative depreciation expense recorded during 2019, as a result of the Company’s decision to retain the Rubbermaid Outdoor, Closet, Refuse, Garage and Cleaning businesses and the Mapa/Spontex and Quickie businesses (collectively referred to as the “Commercial Business”), as well as gross productivity and lower product recall costs. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates unfavorably impacted gross profit by $25 million, or 1%. 

34

Notable items impacting operating loss for 2020 and 2019 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Restructuring-related costs reported in cost of products sold and SG&A for 2020 were $4 million and $19 million, respectively, and primarily related to facility closures. Restructuring-related costs for 2019 were $16 million reported in cost of products sold and $39 million reported in SG&A and primarily relate to accelerated depreciation associated with restructuring activities. Restructuring costs for 2020 and 2019 were $21 million and $27 million, respectively.

(b)Amounts reported in cost of products sold and SG&A for 2019 were $48 million and $9 million, respectively.

(c)Transaction and other costs for 2020 and 2019 primarily reflect fees for certain legal proceedings and other costs associated with completed divestitures. 

Operating loss increased to $634 million in 2020 as compared to $482 million in 2019. Operating loss included non-cash impairment charges of goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangible assets of $1.5 billion recorded in 2020 as compared to $1.2 billion of non-cash impairment charges of goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded in 2019, which included non-cash impairment charges of goodwill for businesses previously classified as held for sale. This performance was partially offset by productivity improvement from various initiatives, lower restructuring and restructuring-related charges, lower overhead costs and discretionary spending, including advertising and promotional costs, cumulative depreciation expense recorded during 2019, as a result of the Company’s decision to retain the Commercial Business, lower transaction and related costs associated with the completion of the Accelerated Transformation Plan (“ATP”) in 2019 and lower costs associated with a product recall in the Outdoor and Recreation segment. See Footnote 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

Interest expense, net for 2020 decreased primarily due to lower debt levels, slightly offset by higher interest rates due to debt rating downgrades. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information. The weighted average interest rates for 2020 and 2019 were approximately 4.6% and 4.4%, respectively.

The loss on the extinguishment of debt of $20 million and $28 million for 2020 and 2019, respectively, were related to the Company’s tender offer of certain of its senior notes and debt redemptions. See Footnote 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Other expense, net for 2020 and 2019 include the following items: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income tax benefit for 2020 was $236 million as compared to $1.0 billion in 2019. The effective tax rate for 2020 was 23.5% as compared to 121.9% in 2019. The income tax benefit for 2020 primarily relates to the impact of goodwill impairment charges, discrete tax benefits associated with the execution of certain tax planning strategies, $53 million for a reduction in valuation allowance related to integration of certain U.S. operations, and $54 million for a reduction of an uncertain tax position due to a statute of limitation expiration, partially offset by $47 million of deferred tax effects associated with certain outside basis differences and tax expense of $27 million related to a change in the tax status of certain entities upon Internal Revenue Service approval. The income tax benefit for 2019 primarily relates to a benefit of $522 million related to the deferred tax effects associated with the internal realignment of certain intellectual property rights, a benefit of $227 million associated with a taxable loss related to the impairment of certain assets and the pre-tax net loss for the year. See Footnote 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information.

35

Business Segment Operating Results 2020 vs. 2019

Commercial Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Commercial Solutions net sales for 2020 increased 4% which reflected sales growth in the Commercial business unit, partially offset by decline in the Connected Home and Security business unit. The Commercial business unit performance reflected increased demand in consumable washroom, refuse, hand protection, and outdoor and laundry categories, partially offset by weakness in food service and hospitality channels as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The decline in net sales in the Connected Home and Security business unit was primarily due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, which shifted consumer purchasing patterns and caused supply chain constraints, impacting sales to its retail and contractor channels. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates unfavorably impacted net sales by $18 million, or 1%. 

Operating loss decreased to $89 million in 2020 as compared to $139 million in 2019. The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the cumulative depreciation and amortization expense adjustment in 2019, as a result of the Company’s decision to retain the Commercial Business. The improvement in the operating results also reflects cost containment initiatives to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic while facilities were closed, including employee furloughs, gross productivity and lower discretionary spending, including advertising and promotional costs. This operating performance was partially offset by the higher costs in Connected Home and Security associated with lower sales volumes and the temporary closure of its key manufacturing facility in Mexico during the first half of 2020, as well as higher non-cash impairment charges of goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangible assets.

Home Appliances

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Home Appliances net sales for 2020 increased 3% which reflected strong sales growth driven by category growth in stay at home products including cooking appliances, most notably in Latin America, the U.K. and Australia. This performance was partially offset by continued loss in domestic market share in North America for certain appliance categories driven by the success of newly launched competitor products. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates unfavorably impacted net sales by $77 million, or 5%. 

Operating loss decreased to $238 million in 2020 as compared to $573 million in 2019. Operating loss included non-cash impairment charges of goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangible assets of $287 million recorded in 2020 as compared to $600 million of non-cash impairment charges of goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded in 2019. Operating results were also favorably impacted by improvements in productivity and lower discretionary spending, including advertising and promotional costs, partially offset by transactional foreign exchange losses in Latin America.

36

Home Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM — NOT MEANINGFUL

Home Solutions net sales for 2020 increased 3% as strong sales performance in the Food business unit was partially offset by sales declines in the Home Fragrance business unit. The increase in Food business unit sales reflected increased demand across the vacuum sealing, fresh preserving and Rubbermaid Food Storage categories, as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by supply chain disruption related to the temporary closure of the since re-opened Sistema manufacturing facility in New Zealand, as well as supply and capacity constraints negatively affecting the fresh preserving and vacuum sealing categories. The decrease in Home Fragrance sales was primarily due to the temporary closure of all of its North American Yankee Candle retail stores, supply chain disruptions resulting from the temporary closure of its key manufacturing facility in Massachusetts and the temporary closure of certain third-party retail stores in the first half of 2020 as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 global pandemic. Yankee Candle retail stores re-opened during the third quarter of 2020. The decrease in Home Fragrance sales also reflected the exit of 77 underperforming Yankee Candle retail stores as well as the exiting of its fundraising business in third quarter of 2020. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted net sales by $4 million. 

Operating loss for 2020 was $2 million as compared to operating income of $10 million in 2019. Operating results were unfavorably impacted by higher costs associated with lower sales volume in the Home Fragrance business unit and the temporary closure of its key manufacturing facility in Massachusetts during the first half of 2020, non-cash impairment charges of certain indefinite-lived intangible assets of $302 million recorded in 2020 as compared to $158 million of non-cash impairment charges of goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded in 2019, as well as, non-cash impairment charges of $8 million recorded in 2020 primarily related to operating leases of its Yankee Candle retail store business. These were partially offset by higher gross profit due to higher sales volume in the Food business unit, cost containment initiatives to mitigate the impact of the temporarily closed Yankee Candle retail stores and operating facilities, including employee furloughs, lower discretionary spending, including promotional costs, and gross productivity. 

Learning and Development

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Learning and Development net sales for 2020 decreased 13% primarily due to the shift in consumer purchasing patterns, third-party retail store closures and supply chain disruptions affecting the Writing and Baby business units as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 global pandemic, including the impact of the delayed re-opening of schools and offices. In particular, the ongoing COVID-19 global pandemic negatively impacted consumption patterns of markers, pens and dry erase products. In addition, the net sales decline also reflected softening trends related to sales of slime-related adhesive products, as well as the exiting of the North American distribution of Uniball® products in 2019. Net sales for the Baby business were relatively flat for 2020. Changes in foreign currency 

37

unfavorably impacted net sales by $5 million.

Operating income decreased to $359 million in 2020 as compared to $582 million in 2019. Operating income was unfavorably impacted by lower sales as mentioned above, higher costs associated with lower sales volume and certain temporary manufacturing closures, higher non-cash impairment charges and increased costs associated with the COVID-19 global pandemic, partially offset by lower overhead, productivity improvements and lower discretionary spending, including advertising and promotional costs.

Outdoor and Recreation

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM — NOT MEANINGFUL

Outdoor and Recreation segment net sales for 2020 decreased 9% primarily due to a shift in consumer purchasing patterns as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, which negatively impacted performance during the first half 2020. During the second half of 2020, demand for outdoor products and coolers, primarily in North America and Asia improved, partially offset by decreased demand in apparel and beverage products. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates unfavorably impacted net sales by $12 million, or 1%. 

Operating loss for 2020 was $420 million as compared to $66 million in 2019. This performance was primarily due to higher non-cash impairment charges of certain indefinite-lived intangibles assets, lower sales volume as noted above and unfavorable product mix, partially offset by lower overhead costs and lower discretionary spending, including advertising and promotional costs, as well as lower costs associated with a product recall in 2019, and productivity improvements.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company believes that its cash generating capability, together with its borrowing capacity and available cash and cash equivalents, provide continued financial viability and adequate liquidity to fund its operations, support its growth platforms, pay down debt and debt maturities as they come due and execute its ongoing business initiatives. The Company regularly assesses its cash requirements and the available sources to fund these needs. At December 31, 2021, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $440 million, of which approximately $330 million was held by the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries. In addition, the Company anticipates using after-tax proceeds from the sale of its CH&S business in 2022 towards the pay down of debt and share repurchases.

The Company believes the extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic to its future sales, operating results, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition will continue to be driven by numerous evolving factors that the Company is not able to accurately predict and which will vary by jurisdiction and market. Any such material adverse impacts could result in the Company's inability to satisfy financial maintenance covenants and could limit the ability to make future borrowings under existing debt instruments. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - COVID-19 Related Risks and Financial Risks, for further information.

38

The table below summarizes the Company's cash activity for 2021, 2020 and 2019 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company tends to generate the majority of its operating cash flow in third and fourth quarters of the year due to seasonal variations in operating results, the timing of annual performance-based compensation payments, working capital requirements and credit terms provided to customers.

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

The change in net cash provided by operating activities for 2021 reflects inventory build to support forecasted demand, including the impact of significant input cost inflation, supply chain shortages and logistical challenges, as well as higher annual incentive compensation payments, partially offset by benefits from extension of payment terms for goods and services with vendors and higher accounts receivable sold under the Customer Receivables Purchase Agreement in the current year. In addition, this performance reflects the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the prior year, which included lower operating results and favorable working capital performance.

The change in net cash provided by operating activities for 2020 is primarily due to successful working capital initiatives, which included: the extension of payment terms for goods and services with vendors, enhanced customer credit review, collections processes and evaluation of supply purchases and focused inventory management. In addition, net cash from operating activities benefited from higher accounts receivable sold under the Customer Receivables Purchase Agreement and a timing benefit from higher payables due to inventory build to support demand. The change in net cash was partially offset by higher annual incentive compensation payments in 2020.

See Capital Resources for further information. 

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

The change in net cash used in investing activities for 2021 was primarily due to higher capital expenditures. 

The change in net cash used in investing activities for 2020 was primarily due to higher proceeds from the sale of divested businesses in 2019, partially offset by lower capital expenditures. 

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

The change in net cash used in financing activities for 2021 was primarily due to proceeds from the issuance of senior notes in the prior year and payments of long-term debt in the current year as well as the acquisition of noncontrolling interests.

The change in net cash used in financing activities for 2020 was primarily due to higher payments of long-term debt in 2019, as well as proceeds from the issuance of the $500 million, 4.875% senior notes due June 2025 in 2020.

See Footnote 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

39

Capital Resources

On November 22, 2021, the Company redeemed its 4.00% senior notes due June 2022 at a redemption price equal to 102% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of the redemption. The total consideration was approximately $259 million, and the Company recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $5 million.

On September 28, 2021, the Company redeemed its 3.75% senior notes due October 2021 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.

On March 1, 2021, the Company redeemed its 3.15% senior notes due April 2021 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.

During the first quarter of 2021, the Company repurchased $5 million of the 3.85% senior notes due 2023 at approximately 5% above par value. The total consideration, excluding accrued interests was approximately $5 million. As a result of the partial debt repurchase, the Company recorded an immaterial loss.

The Company has the ability to borrow under its existing Revolving Credit Facility (the “Credit Revolver”) and Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility (the “Securitization Facility”). Under the Company's $1.25 billion Credit Revolver that matures in December 2023, the interest rate is London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) rate plus 127.5 basis points. The Credit Revolver provides for the issuance of up to $100 million of letters of credit, so long as there is a sufficient amount available for borrowing under the Credit Revolver. At December 31, 2021 there were approximately $22 million of outstanding standby letters of credit issued against the Credit Revolver, with a net availability of approximately $1.2 billion. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Revolver or commercial paper borrowings at December 31, 2021. 

The Credit Revolver requires the maintenance of certain financial covenants. A failure to maintain our financial covenants would impair our ability to borrow under the Credit Revolver. In addition, if economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic do not improve or otherwise worsen, our earnings and operating cash flows could be negatively impacted, which could impact our ability to maintain compliance with our financial covenants and require us to seek amendments to the Credit Revolver. The Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2021.

The aggregate commitment under the Securitization Facility is $600 million. The Securitization Facility matures in October 2022 and bears interest at a margin over a variable interest rate. The maximum availability under the Securitization Facility fluctuates based on eligible accounts receivable balances. At December 31, 2021, the Company did not have any amounts outstanding under the Securitization Facility. 

Factored receivables at the end of 2021 associated with the existing factoring agreement (the “Customer Receivables Purchase Agreement”) were approximately $500 million, an increase of approximately $150 million from December 31, 2020. Transactions under this agreement are accounted for as sales of accounts receivable, and the receivables sold are removed from the Consolidated Balance Sheet at the time of the sales transaction. The Company classifies the proceeds received from the sales of accounts receivable as an operating cash flow and collections of accounts receivables not yet submitted to the financial institution as a financing cash flow in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Company records the discount as other (income) expense, net in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

On November 1, 2019, S&P Global Inc. (“S&P”) downgraded the Company’s debt rating to “BB+” as S&P believed the Company would fail to meet S&P’s target debt level for 2019. In addition, on March 9, 2020, Moody’s Corporation (“Moody’s”) downgraded the Company’s debt rating to “Ba1” based on a view that the Company would fail to meet Moody's target debt level for 2020. As a result of the S&P and Moody's downgrades, certain of the Company’s outstanding senior notes currently aggregating to approximately $4.2 billion were subject to an interest rate adjustment of 25 basis points for each downgrade, totaling 50 basis points. This increase to the interest rates of each series of the Company's senior notes subject to adjustment increased the Company’s annualized interest expense by approximately $21 million. In addition, the Company’s ability to borrow from the commercial paper market on terms it deemed acceptable or favorable was eliminated and its cost of borrowing increased. The Company’s ability to borrow under the Credit Revolver was not affected by the downgrades.

On February 11, 2022, S&P upgraded the Company’s debt rating to “BBB-” from “BB+” as S&P believed the Company has been able to achieve S&P’s target debt level. As a result of this upgrade, the Company will again be in a position to access the commercial paper market, up to a maximum of $800 million provided there is a sufficient amount available for borrowing under the Credit Revolver. In addition, the interest rates on certain of the Company’s outstanding senior notes aggregating to approximately $4.2 billion will decrease by 25 basis points, reducing the Company’s interest expense by approximately $10 million on an annualized basis (approximately $8 million in 2022) as a result of the S&P upgrade. However, these senior notes will remain subject to the interest rate adjustment of 25 basis points resulting from the 2020 debt rating downgrade by Moody’s, which has an 

40

annualized impact on interest expense of approximately $11 million. Furthermore, the Company may be required to pay a higher interest rates in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease, as a result of any future downgrades. 

On February 6, 2022, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a $375 million Share Repurchase Program, effective immediately through the end of 2022. The Company’s common shares may be purchased by the Company in the open market, in negotiated transactions or in other manners as permitted by federal securities laws and other legal requirements. The repurchase of additional shares in the future will depend upon many factors, including the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and legal requirements.

The Company currently believes its capital structure and cash resources will continue to support the funding of future dividends and the Company will continue to evaluate all actions to strengthen its financial position and balance sheet, and to maintain its financial liquidity, flexibility and capital allocation strategy.

Risk Management

From time to time, the Company enters into derivative transactions to hedge its exposures to interest rate, foreign currency rate and commodity price fluctuations. The Company does not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes.

Interest Rate Contracts

The Company manages its fixed and floating rate debt mix using interest rate swaps. The Company may use fixed and floating rate swaps to alter its exposure to the impact of changing interest rates on its consolidated results of operations and future cash outflows for interest. Floating rate swaps would be used, depending on market conditions, to convert the fixed rates of long-term debt into short-term variable rates. Fixed rate swaps would be used to reduce the Company’s risk of the possibility of increased interest costs. The cash paid and received from the settlement of interest rate swaps is included in interest expense.

Fair Value Hedges

At December 31, 2021, the Company had approximately $100 million notional amount of interest rate swaps that exchange a fixed rate of interest for variable rate (LIBOR) of interest plus a weighted average spread. These floating rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges against $100 million of principal on the 4.00% senior notes due 2024 for the remaining life of the note. The effective portion of the fair value gains or losses on these swaps is offset by fair value adjustments in the underlying debt.

Cross-Currency Contracts

The Company uses cross-currency swaps to hedge foreign currency risk on certain financing arrangements. The Company previously entered into two cross-currency swaps, maturing in January and February 2025, respectively, with an aggregate notional amount of $900 million. During the third quarter of 2021, the Company entered into another cross-currency swap with a notional amount of $358 million, maturing in September 2027. Each of these cross-currency swaps were designated as net investment hedges of the Company's foreign currency exposure of its net investment in certain Euro-functional currency subsidiaries with Euro-denominated net assets, and the Company pays a fixed rate of Euro-based interest and receives a fixed rate of U.S. dollar interest. The Company has elected the spot method for assessing the effectiveness of these contracts. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company recognized income of $16 million and $14 million, respectively, in interest expense, net, related to the portion of cross-currency swaps excluded from hedge effectiveness testing. 

Foreign Currency Contracts

The Company uses forward foreign currency contracts to mitigate the foreign currency exchange rate exposure on the cash flows related to forecasted inventory purchases and sales and have maturity dates through December 2022. The derivatives used to hedge these forecasted transactions that meet the criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of the gains or losses on these derivatives is deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“AOCL”) and is recognized in earnings at the same time that the hedged item affects earnings and is included in the same caption in the statements of operations as the underlying hedged item. At December 31, 2021, the Company had approximately $523 million notional amount outstanding of forward foreign currency contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted inventory 

41

purchases and sales.

The Company also uses foreign currency contracts, primarily forward foreign currency contracts, to mitigate the foreign currency exposure of certain other foreign currency transactions. At December 31, 2021, the Company had approximately $1.6 billion notional amount outstanding of these foreign currency contracts that are not designated as effective hedges for accounting purposes and have maturity dates through December 2022. Fair market value gains or losses are included in the results of operations and are classified in other (income) expense, net in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations.

The following table presents the fair value of derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2021 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company has outstanding debt obligations maturing at various dates through 2046. Certain other items, such as purchase commitments and other executory contracts, are not recognized as liabilities in the Company’s consolidated financial statements but are required to be disclosed. Examples of items not recognized as liabilities in the Company’s consolidated financial statements are commitments to purchase raw materials or inventory that has not yet been received at December 31, 2021, and other non-cancelable obligations including capital assets and other licensing services.

The following table summarizes the effect, that material contractual obligations and commitments are expected to have on the Company’s cash flow in the indicated period at December 31, 2021. Additional details regarding these obligations are provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Amounts represent contractual obligations based on the earliest date that the obligation may become due, including finance leases, excluding interest, based on borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2021. For further information relating to these obligations, see Footnote 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2)Amounts represent estimated interest payable on borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2021, excluding the impact of fixed to floating rate interest rate swaps. Interest on floating-rate debt was estimated using the rate in effect at December 31, 2021. For further information, see Footnote 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(3)Amounts represent lease liabilities on operating leases at December 31, 2021. See Footnote 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(4)Primarily consists of purchase commitments with suppliers entered into at December 31, 2021, for the purchase of materials, packaging and other components and services. These purchase commitment amounts represent only those items which are based on agreements that are legally enforceable and that specify all significant terms including minimum quantity, price and term and do not represent total anticipated purchases.

(5)Represents the future cash payments related to 2017 Tax Reform, for the one-time provisional transition tax on the Company’s previously untaxed foreign earnings. 

42

(6)Total does not include contractual obligations reported on the December 31, 2021 balance sheet as current liabilities, except for current portion of long-term debt, short-term debt and accrued interest.

The Company has entered into agreements for certain right of use operating leases that it has not yet taken possession of and are not reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2021. The total future obligations of these right of use operating leases have been excluded from the preceding table and are approximately $130 million. See Footnote 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

The Company also has liabilities for uncertain tax positions and unrecognized tax benefits. The Company is under audit from time-to-time by the IRS and other taxing authorities, and it is possible that the amount of the liability for uncertain tax positions and unrecognized tax benefits could change in the coming year. While it is possible that one or more of these examinations may be resolved in the next year, the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing or the amount by which the liability will be settled over time; therefore, the $457 million in unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2021, is excluded from the preceding table. See Footnote 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Additionally, the Company has obligations with respect to its pension and postretirement benefit plans, which are excluded from the preceding table. The timing and amounts of the funding requirements are uncertain because they are dependent on interest rates and actual returns on plan assets, among other factors. See Footnote 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

At December 31, 2021, the Company had approximately $49 million in standby letters of credit primarily related to the Company’s self-insurance programs, including workers’ compensation, product liability and medical. See Footnote 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

At December 31, 2021, the Company did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4) (ii) of Regulation S-K.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The Company’s significant accounting policies are more fully described in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As disclosed in that footnote, the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying footnotes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results will differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company’s most critical accounting policies, which are those that have or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on its financial condition and results of operations, are described below.

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes revenue when performance obligations under the terms of a contract with the customer are satisfied and are recognized at a point in time, which generally occurs either on shipment or on delivery based on contractual terms, which is also when control is transferred. The Company’s primary performance obligation is the distribution and sales of its consumer and commercial products to its customers. 

Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration for which it expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or providing services. Certain customers may receive cash and/or non-cash incentives such as cash discounts, returns, credits or reimbursements related to defective products, customer discounts (such as volume or trade discounts), cooperative advertising and other customer-related programs, which are accounted for as variable consideration. In some cases, the Company applies judgment, including contractual rates and historical payment trends, when estimating variable consideration.

In addition, the Company participates in various programs and arrangements with customers designed to increase the sale of products by these customers. Among the programs negotiated are arrangements under which allowances are earned by customers for attaining agreed-upon sales levels or for participating in specific marketing programs. Coupon programs are also developed on a customer- and territory-specific basis. 

Under customer programs and arrangements that require sales incentives to be paid in advance, the Company amortizes the amount paid over the period of benefit or contractual sales volume. When incentives are paid in arrears, the Company accrues the estimated amount to be paid based on the program’s contractual terms, expected customer performance and/or estimated sales volume. These estimates are determined using historical customer experience and other factors, which sometimes require significant judgment. Due 

43

to the length of time necessary to obtain relevant data from customers, among other factors, actual amounts paid can differ from these estimates.

Sales taxes and other similar taxes are excluded from revenue. The Company has elected to account for shipping and handling activities as a fulfillment cost. The Company also elected not to disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which revenue is recognized at the amount to which the Company has the right to invoice for services performed.

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangibles

Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles are tested and reviewed for impairment annually during the fourth quarter (on December 1), or more frequently if facts and circumstances warrant. On December 1, 2021, the carrying values for total goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets were $3.5 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively. 

Goodwill

Goodwill is tested for impairment at a reporting unit level, and all of the Company’s goodwill is assigned to its reporting units. Reporting units are determined based upon the Company’s organizational structure in place at the date of the goodwill impairment testing and generally one level below the operating segment level. The Company’s operations are comprised of eight reporting units, within its five primary operating segments.

The quantitative goodwill impairment testing requires significant use of judgment and assumptions, such as the identification of reporting units; the assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units; and the estimation of future cash flows, business growth rates, terminal values, discount rates and total enterprise value. The income approach used is the discounted cash flow methodology and is based on five-year cash flow projections. The cash flows projected are analyzed on a debt-free basis (before cash payments to equity and interest-bearing debt investors) in order to develop an enterprise value from operations for the reporting unit. A provision is made, based on these projections, for the value of the reporting unit at the end of the forecast period, or terminal value. The present value of the finite-period cash flows and the terminal value are determined using a selected discount rate. The Company estimated the fair values of its reporting units based on discounted cash flow methodology reflecting its latest projections which included, among other things, the impact of significant input cost inflation for commodities, primarily resin, sourced finished goods,

transportation and labor on its operations at the time the Company performed its impairment testing.

There was no goodwill impairment recorded in conjunction with the Company’s annual impairment testing in the fourth quarter, and, as of December 31, 2021, there were no reporting units with fair values within 10% of the associated carrying values. Additionally, a hypothetical 10% reduction in forecasted earnings before interest, taxes and amortization used in the discounted cash flows to estimate the fair value of each reporting unit would not have resulted in a goodwill impairment charge.

See Footnotes 1 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Indefinite-lived intangibles

The testing of indefinite-lived intangibles (primarily trademarks and tradenames) under established guidelines for impairment also requires significant use of judgment and assumptions (such as cash flow projections, royalty rates, terminal values and discount rates). An indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired by the amount its carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value. For impairment testing purposes, the fair value of indefinite-lived intangibles is determined using either the relief from royalty method or the excess earnings method. The relief from royalty method estimates the value of a tradename by discounting the hypothetical avoided royalty payments to their present value over the economic life of the asset. The excess earnings method estimates the value of the intangible asset by quantifying the residual (or excess) cash flows generated by the asset and discounts those cash flows to the present. The excess earnings methodology requires the application of contributory asset charges. Contributory asset charges typically include assumed payments for the use of working capital, tangible assets and other intangible assets. Changes in forecasted operations and other assumptions could materially affect the estimated fair values. Changes in business conditions could potentially require adjustments to these asset valuations. 

During the fourth quarter of 2021, in connection with its annual impairment testing, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of $29 million and $31 million associated with tradenames in the Commercial Solutions and Learning and Development segments, respectively, as their carrying values exceeded their fair values, reflecting a downward revision of future expected cash flows, which include the impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic. An increase of 100 basis points in the discount rate used in the discounted cash flows to estimate fair values of these tradenames would have resulted in increased impairment charges of approximately $1 million and $7 million, respectively. The remaining value of these tradenames were $5 million and $47 million, respectively. 

44

The remaining tradenames within the Company's Commercial Solutions and Learning and Development segments with no impairment during the fourth quarter of 2021 impairment test had carrying values of $523 million and $436 million, respectively, and fair values in excess of 10% of carrying values. An increase of 100 basis points in the discount rate used in the discounted cash flows to estimate fair values of these remaining tradenames would not have resulted in an impairment charge.

There were no impairments of the Company’s tradenames within the Home Appliances, Home Solutions and Outdoor and Recreation segments during the fourth quarter of 2021 impairment test. The carrying value of tradenames within these segments were $58 million, $1.0 billion and $119 million, respectively, and fair values in excess of 10% of the carrying values. An increase of 100 basis points in the discount rate used in the discounted cash flows to estimate fair values of these tradenames would not have resulted in an impairment charge.

At December 31, 2021, all remaining indefinite-lived tradenames had fair values in excess of 10% of their associated carrying values.

See Footnotes 1 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

The Company believes the circumstances and global disruption caused by COVID-19 may continue to affect its businesses, future operating results, cash flows and financial condition and that the scope and duration of the pandemic is highly uncertain. In addition, some of the other inherent estimates and assumptions used in determining fair value of the reporting units are outside the control of management, including interest rates, cost of capital, tax rates, industry growth, credit ratings, foreign exchange rates, and inflation for commodities, sourced finished goods, transportation and labor. Given the uncertainty of these factors, as well as the inherent difficulty in predicting the severity and duration of the COVID-19 global pandemic and associated recovery and the uncertainties regarding the potential financial impact on the Company's business and the overall economy, there can be no assurance that the Company's estimates and assumptions made for purposes of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2021 will prove to be accurate predictions of the future.

The Company believes it has made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair values of the reporting units and other indefinite-lived intangible assets which were based on facts and circumstances known at this time. It is, however, possible that new events may occur or actual events may result in forecasted cash flows, revenue and earnings that differ from those that formed the basis of the Company’s estimates and assumptions. Actual results could be materially different from the Company’s estimates and assumptions used to calculate fair value for each of the Company’s reporting units if the global pandemic caused by COVID-19 continues to persist for an extended period of time. If such a scenario were to occur, the Company may be required to recognize material impairments to goodwill and/or indefinite-lived intangible assets. The Company will continue to monitor its reporting units for any triggering events or other signs of impairment. The Company may be required to perform additional impairment testing based on further deterioration of the global economic environment, continued disruptions to the Company’s business, further declines in operating results of the Company’s reporting units and/or tradenames, further sustained deterioration of the Company’s market capitalization, and other factors, which could result in impairment charges in the future. Although management cannot predict when improvements in macroeconomic conditions will occur, if consumer confidence and consumer spending decline significantly in the future or if commercial and industrial economic activity experiences a sustained deterioration from current levels, it is reasonably likely the Company will be required to record impairment charges in the future.

Other Long-Lived Assets

The Company continuously evaluates whether impairment indicators related to its property, plant and equipment, operating leases and other long-lived assets are present. These impairment indicators may include a significant decrease in the market price of a long-lived asset or asset group, early termination of an operating lease, a significant adverse change to the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset or asset group is being used or in its physical condition, or a current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of a long-lived asset or asset group. If impairment indicators are present, the Company estimates the future cash flows for the asset or group of assets. The sum of the undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the asset or group of assets is compared to their carrying amount. The cash flows are estimated utilizing various assumptions regarding future sales and expenses, working capital and proceeds from asset disposals on a basis consistent with the Company’s forecasts. If the carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows, the Company discounts the future cash flows using a discount rate required for a similar investment of like risk and records an impairment charge as the difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the asset group. The Company performs its testing of the asset group at the reporting unit level, as this is the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are available, with the exception of the Yankee Candle business, where testing is performed at the retail store level. See Footnotes 6, 7, and 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

45

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability approach. Under this approach, deferred income taxes are recognized based on the tax effects of temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as measured by current enacted tax rates. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce the deferred tax assets to an amount that will more likely than not be realized. 

The Company’s income tax provisions are based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by various worldwide tax authorities. Although the Company believes that the positions taken on previously filed tax returns are reasonable, it has established tax, interest and penalty reserves in recognition that various taxing authorities may challenge the positions taken, which could result in additional liabilities for taxes, interest and penalties. The Company regularly reviews its deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies.

For uncertain tax positions, the Company applies the provisions of relevant authoritative guidance, which requires application of a “more likely than not” threshold to the recognition and derecognition of tax positions. The Company’s ongoing assessments of the more likely than not outcomes of tax authority examinations and related tax positions require significant judgment and can increase or decrease the Company’s effective tax rate, as well as impact operating results.

The Company’s provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be favorably or adversely affected by earnings being higher or lower in countries that have lower tax rates and higher or lower in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in tax-related legislation; by expiration of or lapses in tax incentives; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by changes in accounting principles; by liquidity needs driving repatriations of non-U.S. cash to the U.S.; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules.

The Company’s effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate, primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign tax rates, tax credits, the domestic manufacturing deduction, tax audit settlements and valuation allowance adjustments. Significant judgment is required in evaluating uncertain tax positions, determining valuation allowances recorded against deferred tax assets, and ultimately, the income tax provision.

It is difficult to predict when resolution of income tax matters will occur and when recognition of certain income tax assets and liabilities is appropriate, and the Company’s income tax expense in the future may continue to differ from the statutory rate because of the effects of similar items. For example, if items are favorably resolved or management determines a deferred tax asset is realizable that was previously reserved, the Company will recognize period tax benefits. Conversely, to the extent tax matters are unfavorably resolved or management determines a valuation allowance is necessary for a tax asset that was not previously reserved, the Company will recognize incremental period tax expense. These matters are expected to contribute to the tax rate differing from the statutory rate and continued volatility in the Company’s effective tax rate. See Footnote 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Pensions and Postretirement Benefits

The Company records annual amounts relating to its pension and postretirement plans based on calculations, which include various actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, assumed rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. The Company reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate to do so. The effect of modifications is generally deferred and amortized over future periods. The Company believes that the assumptions utilized in recording its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on its experience, market conditions and the input from its actuaries and investment advisors. The pension and postretirement obligations are measured at December 31, 2021 and 2020.

The Company employs a total return investment approach for its pension and postretirement benefit plans whereby a mix of equities and fixed income investments are used to maximize the long-term return of pension plan assets. The intent of this strategy is to minimize plan expenses by outperforming plan liabilities over the long run. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded status, and corporate financial condition. The investment portfolios contain a diversified blend of equity and fixed-income investments. Furthermore, equity investments are diversified across geography and market capitalization through investments in U.S. large-capitalization stocks, U.S. small-capitalization stocks and international securities. Investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through annual liability measurements, periodic asset/liability studies and quarterly investment portfolio reviews.

46

The expected long-term rate of return for plan assets is based upon many factors including expected asset allocations, historical asset returns, current and expected future market conditions, risk and active management premiums. The target asset allocations for the Company’s domestic pension plans may vary by plan, in part due to plan demographics, funded status and liability duration. In general, the Company’s target asset allocations are as follows: global equities approximately 10% to 30%; fixed income approximately 70% to 90%; and cash, alternative investments and other, approximately zero to 10% at December 31, 2021. Actual asset allocations may vary from the targeted allocations for various reasons, including market conditions and the timing of transactions. The Company maintains numerous international defined benefit pension plans. The asset allocations for the international investment may vary by plan and jurisdiction and are primarily based upon the plan structure and plan participant profile. At December 31, 2021, the domestic plan assets were allocated as follows: Equities: approximately 19% and Other Investments (alternative investments, fixed-income securities, cash and other): approximately 81%. Actual asset allocations may vary from the targeted allocations for various reasons, including market conditions and the timing of transactions. 

For 2021, 2020 and 2019, the actual return on plan assets for the Company’s U.S. pension plan assets was approximately $48 million, $178 million and $213 million, respectively, versus an expected return on plan assets of approximately $51 million, $59 million and $59 million, respectively. The actual amount of future contributions will depend, in part, on long-term actual return on assets and future discount rates. Pension contributions for all the Company’s pension plans for 2022 are estimated to be approximately $18 million, as compared to the 2021 contributions of approximately $20 million.

The weighted average expected return on plan assets assumption for 2021 was approximately 3.6% for the Company’s pension plans. The weighted average discount rate at the 2021 measurement date used to measure the pension and postretirement benefit obligations was approximately 2.3% and 2.3%, respectively. A 25 basis points decrease in the discount rate at the 2021 measurement date would increase the pension plans’ projected benefit obligation by approximately $58 million.

The healthcare cost trend rates used in valuing the Company’s postretirement benefit obligation are established based upon actual healthcare cost trends and consultation with actuaries and benefit providers. At December 31, 2021, the current weighted average healthcare cost trend rate assumption was approximately 6.2%. The current healthcare cost trend rate is assumed to gradually decrease to an ultimate healthcare cost trend rate of 4.5%. See Footnote 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

A summary of recent accounting pronouncements is included in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

International Operations

For 2021, the Company’s non-U.S. businesses accounted for approximately 35% of net sales and 33% for 2020 and 2019 (see Footnote 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Forward-Looking Statements

Forward-looking statements in this Report are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements generally can be identified by the use of words such as “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “plan,” “expect,” “setting up,” “beginning to,” “will,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “resume,” “are confident that,” “remain optimistic that,” “seek to,” or similar statements. The Company cautions that forward-looking statements are not guarantees because there are inherent difficulties in predicting future results. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to:

•the Company's ability to manage the demand, supply and operational challenges with the actual or perceived effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, including as a result of any additional variants of the virus or the efficacy and distribution of vaccines;

•the Company’s dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various countries around the world;

•competition with other manufacturers and distributors of consumer products;

•major retailers’ strong bargaining power and consolidation of the Company’s customers;

•changes in the prices and availability of labor, transportation, raw materials and sourced products, including significant inflation, and the Company's ability to obtain them in a timely manner;

•the Company’s ability to improve productivity, reduce complexity and streamline operations;

•the cost and outcomes of governmental investigations, inspections, lawsuits, legislative requests or other actions by third parties, including but not limited to those described in Footnote 18 of the Notes to the Condensed 

47

Consolidated Financial Statements, the potential outcomes of which could exceed policy limits, to the extent insured;

•the Company’s ability to develop innovative new products, to develop, maintain and strengthen end-user brands and to realize the benefits of increased advertising and promotion spend;

•the Company's ability to consistently maintain effective internal control over financial reporting;

•risks related to the Company’s substantial indebtedness, potential increases in interest rates or changes in the Company’s credit ratings;

•future events that could adversely affect the value of the Company’s assets and/or stock price and require additional impairment charges;

•the Company's ability to complete planned divestitures, and other unexpected costs or expenses associated with dispositions;

•our ability to effectively execute our turnaround plan;

•the risks inherent to the Company’s foreign operations, including currency fluctuations, exchange controls and pricing restrictions;

•a failure or breach of one of the Company’s key information technology systems, networks, processes or related controls or those of the Company’s service providers;

•the impact of United States or foreign regulations on the Company’s operations, including the impact of tariffs and environmental remediation costs;

•the potential inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees;

•changes in tax laws and the resolution of tax contingencies resulting in additional tax liabilities;

•product liability, product recalls or related regulatory actions;

•the Company’s ability to protect its intellectual property rights;

•significant increases in the funding obligations related to the Company’s pension plans; and

•other factors listed from time to time in our SEC filings, including but not limited to our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.

The information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is as of the date indicated. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as a result of new information or future events or developments. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company has correctly identified and assessed all of the factors affecting the Company or that the publicly available and other information the Company receives with respect to these factors is complete or correct.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK