Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Equity Price Risk 

Marketable and Non-Marketable Equity Investments 

Our marketable and non-marketable equity securities investments totaled $1.1 billion and $946 million as of May 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our marketable equity securities investments in publicly traded companies are recorded at fair value, which is subject to market price volatility. Our non-marketable equity securities investments in private companies not accounted for under the equity method are adjusted to fair value for observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or for impairment. Our non-marketable equity securities investments accounted for under the equity method, primarily in a related party entity, generally do not fluctuate based on market price changes. However, these equity method investments could be impaired if the carrying value exceeds the fair value and is not expected to recover. The timing and amounts of changes in fair value, if any, of our marketable and non-marketable equity investments depends on factors beyond our control, including the perceived and actual performance of the companies in which we invest. For additional disclosure regarding the impact to our quarterly results of operations from investment volatility, please refer to Item 1A Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report. 

Currency Risk  

Foreign Currency Translation Risk  

As described under “Constant Currency Presentation” above, our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of our consolidated revenues and expenses that we report in U.S. Dollars. As a result, our consolidated revenues and expenses are affected and will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major foreign currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets, liabilities, earnings and cash flows that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into U.S. Dollars for, and as of the end of, each reporting period. In particular, the strengthening of  

57 

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

the U.S. Dollar generally will reduce the reported amount of our foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, total revenues and total expenses that we translate into U.S. Dollars and report in our consolidated financial statements for, and as of the end of, each reporting period. 

Foreign Currency Transaction Risk  

We transact business in various foreign currencies. Our principal currency exposures include the Euro, Japanese Yen, Saudi Arabian Riyal, Indian Rupee and British Pound. Our foreign currency exposures primarily arise from various intercompany transactions. We have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks that arise from the aforementioned transactions. Under this program, our strategy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts for major currencies in which we have an exposure so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts which mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transactions. We may suspend this program from time to time. Our foreign currency forward contracts are generally short-term in duration and we do not use them for trading purposes. 

We realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts, and we also incur costs to enter into these foreign currency forward contracts, substantially all of which are included in non-operating expenses or income, net in our consolidated financial statements. Our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to foreign currency exposures will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, the net realized gain or loss on our foreign currency forward contracts and other factors. Furthermore, as a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, in which the amounts and timing are unknown. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional details about our foreign currency forward contracts. 

Sensitivity Analysis 

The following table sets forth the hypothetical potential losses that we consider to be the most material to the reported fair values and/or future earnings of our interest rate, equity price and foreign currency influenced holdings, prior to any income tax effects, resulting from hypothetical changes in relevant market rates as of or for the reporting periods below: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Item 8.