ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

The Company manages foreign currency transaction and translation risk by utilizing derivative and non-derivative financial instruments, including forward exchange contracts, costless collar contracts, cross-currency swap contracts and certain foreign currency denominated debt designated as net investment hedges. The derivative financial instrument contracts are with major investment grade financial institutions and we do not anticipate any material non-performance by any of the counterparties. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.

In connection with the proposed Acquisition, the Company entered into deal-contingent forward contracts during October 2021 to mitigate the risk of appreciation in the GBP-denominated purchase price. The deal-contingent forward contracts have an aggregate notional amount of £6,415 million, and settlement is contingent upon closing the proposed Acquisition. A one percent decrease in the GBP-USD exchange rate would result in a $78 million decrease in the fair value of the contract.

Derivative financial instruments are recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair value. Further information on the fair value of these contracts is provided in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are adjusted to fair value by recording gains and losses through the Consolidated Statement of Income. Derivatives that are designated as hedges are adjusted to fair value by recording gains and losses through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the Consolidated Balance Sheet until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. For cross-currency swaps measured using the spot method, the periodic interest settlements are recognized directly in earnings through interest expense. The translation of the foreign currency denominated debt that has been designated as a net investment hedge is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and remains there until the underlying net investment is sold or substantially liquidated.

The Company's debt portfolio contains variable rate debt, inherently exposing the Company to interest rate risk. The Company's objective is to maintain a 60/40 mix between fixed rate and variable rate debt thereby limiting its exposure to changes in near-term interest rates. At June 30, 2022, our debt portfolio did not include any variable rate debt. However, a 100 basis point increase in near-term interest rates would increase annual interest expense on weighted average commercial paper balances during 2022 by approximately $15 million.

As discussed elsewhere in this report, the future impacts of the Russia-Ukraine war and the COVID-19 pandemic and their residual effects, including economic uncertainty, inflationary environment and disruption within the global supply chain, labor markets and aerospace industry, on our business remain uncertain. As we cannot anticipate the ultimate duration or scope of the Russia-Ukraine war and the COVID-19 pandemic, the ultimate financial impact to our results cannot be reasonably estimated, but could be material.

32
ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.