PART I

ITEM 1.Business

Overview 

Quanta Services, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “Quanta,” “we,” “us” or “our”) is a leading provider of specialty contracting services, delivering comprehensive infrastructure solutions for the electric and gas utility, renewable energy, communications, pipeline and energy industries in the United States, Canada, Australia and select other international markets. We provide engineering, procurement, construction, and repair and maintenance services for infrastructure within each of these industries, including electric power transmission and distribution networks; substation facilities; wind and solar generation and transmission and battery storage facilities; communications and cable multi-system operator networks; gas utility systems; pipeline transmission systems and facilities; and downstream industrial facilities. Our operations are decentralized and labor-intensive, and we rely on craft skilled labor personnel and experienced operators to successfully manage our day-to-day business. We also have an experienced management team, both at the executive level and within our subsidiaries, which we refer to as operating companies or operating units. We operate a fleet of owned and leased trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment, as well as various proprietary technologies that enhance our service offerings. We have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in the utility, renewable energy, communications, industrial and energy delivery markets.

The performance of our business generally depends on our ability to obtain contracts with customers and to effectively deliver the services provided under those contracts. Our services are typically provided pursuant to master service agreements, repair and maintenance contracts and fixed price and non-fixed price construction and engineering contracts. We offer comprehensive and diverse solutions on a broad geographic scale and have a solid base of long-standing customer relationships in each of the industries we serve. We believe our reputation for safety leadership, responsiveness and performance, geographic reach, comprehensive service offerings and financial strength have resulted in strong relationships with numerous customers, and we endeavor to develop and maintain strategic alliances and preferred service provider status with our customers. 

We believe that our business strategies, along with our safety culture and financial resources, differentiate us from our competition and position us to benefit from future capital spending by our customers. Our strategies include delivering a portfolio of infrastructure solutions to existing and potential customers, developing our technological and training capabilities, remaining committed to the safety of our employees, and maintaining an entrepreneurial culture throughout our organization. We believe executing on these strategies places us in the position to capitalize on opportunities and trends in the industries we serve and expand our operations to select new markets. 

Services

Beginning with the three months ended December 31, 2021, we report our results under three reportable segments: (1) Electric Power Infrastructure Solutions, (2) Renewable Energy Infrastructure Solutions and (3) Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions. The Renewable Energy Infrastructure Solutions segment was added primarily due to our acquisition of Blattner Holding Company and its operating subsidiaries (collectively, Blattner) during 2021, as described further below. The acquisition of Blattner significantly expanded and enhanced our existing services with respect to the renewable energy generation industry. In conjunction with this change in reportable segments, certain prior period amounts have been recast to conform to our new segment reporting structure. We operate primarily in the United States; however, we derived approximately 14.7%, 14.2% and 16.0% of our revenues from foreign operations, primarily in Canada and Australia, during the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019.

Electric Power Infrastructure Solutions. Our Electric Power Infrastructure Solutions segment provides comprehensive services for the electric power and communications markets, including: 

•design, procurement, new construction, upgrade and repair and maintenance services for electric power transmission and distribution infrastructure, both overhead and underground, and substation facilities, along with other engineering and technical services to support the implementation of upgrades by utilities to modernize and harden the electric power grid in order to ensure its safety and enhance reliability; 

•emergency restoration services, including the repair of infrastructure damaged by fires and inclement weather; 

•the energized installation, maintenance and upgrade of electric power infrastructure utilizing unique bare hand and hot stick methods and our robotic arm techniques;

•the installation of “smart grid” technologies on electric power networks;

4

•comprehensive design and construction services to wireline and wireless communications companies, cable multi-system operators and other customers within the communications industry (including services in connection with 5G wireless deployment);

•design, installation, maintenance and repair services related to commercial and industrial wiring; and

•aviation services primarily for the utility industry, including the transportation of line workers, the setting of poles and towers, and the stringing of wires.

This segment also includes (i) our portion of earnings of our unconsolidated integral affiliates, including LUMA Energy, LLC (LUMA), a joint venture in which we own a 50% interest and which was selected for a 15-year operation and maintenance agreement to operate, maintain and modernize the approximately 18,000-mile electric transmission and distribution system in Puerto Rico, and (ii) the majority of the financial results of our training facility and our postsecondary educational institution, which specializes in pre-apprenticeship training, apprenticeship training and specialized utility task training for electric workers, as well as training for the gas distribution and communications industries. For additional information regarding LUMA, see Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report, and for additional information on our training facility and postsecondary educational institution, see Human Capital Resources - Employee Recruiting, Development and Training below.

Renewable Energy Infrastructure Solutions. Our Renewable Energy Infrastructure Solutions segment provides comprehensive infrastructure solutions to customers that own and develop renewable energy and/or related infrastructure. Services performed by the Renewable Energy Infrastructure Solutions segment generally include: 

•engineering, procurement, new construction, upgrade and repair and maintenance services for utility-scale wind, solar and hydropower generation facilities and battery storage facilities; and

•engineering and construction services for substations and switchyards, transmission and other electrical infrastructure needed to interconnect and transmit electricity from renewable energy generation and battery storage facilities.

Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions. Our Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions segment provides comprehensive infrastructure solutions to customers involved in the development, transportation, distribution, storage and processing of natural gas, oil and other products. Services performed by the Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions segment generally include: 

•design, engineering, procurement, new construction, upgrade and repair and maintenance services for natural gas systems for gas utility customers; 

•pipeline protection, integrity testing, rehabilitation and replacement services; 

•catalyst replacement services, high-pressure and critical-path turnaround services, instrumentation and electrical services, piping, fabrication and storage tank services to the midstream and downstream industrial energy markets;

•engineering and construction services for pipeline systems, storage systems and compressor and pump stations and the fabrication of pipeline support systems and related structures and facilities;

•trenching, directional boring and mechanized welding services related to the services described above and in connection with our electric power infrastructure services; and

•engineering, construction and maintenance services for energy-transition and carbon-reduction related projects, such as alternative fuel facilities, carbon capture systems and hydrogen facilities.

Recent Significant Acquisition 

On October 13, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Blattner, a large and leading utility-scale renewable energy infrastructure solutions provider that is located in and primarily operates in North America. Consideration for this acquisition was $2.37 billion paid or payable in cash (subject to certain adjustments) and 3,326,955 shares of Quanta common stock, which had a fair value of $345.4 million as of the date of the acquisition. The final amount of consideration for this acquisition remains subject to certain post-closing adjustments, including with respect to net working capital. Additionally, pursuant to the terms of the agreement and plan of merger, the former owners of Blattner are eligible for the potential payment of up to $300.0 million of contingent consideration, payable to the extent the acquired business achieves certain financial performance targets over a three-year period beginning in January 2022. Since the acquisition date, Blattner’s results of operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements within the Renewable Energy Infrastructure Solutions segment. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for further information regarding this and our other recent acquisitions.

5

Customer Relationships

We have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in the industries we serve, and we have developed strong strategic alliances with numerous customers and strive to develop and maintain our status as a preferred service provider to our customers. For the year ended December 31, 2021, our largest customer accounted for 7% of our consolidated revenues and our ten largest customers accounted for 38% of our consolidated revenues. Representative customers include:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our customers include utilities, renewable energy developers, communications, industrial and energy delivery companies, as well as governmental entities. We have estimated revenues by customer type as a percentage of total revenues below. Such estimates are based on management judgment and assumptions and are provided to show perceived trends in our customer types and should be considered directional in nature.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The customer types set forth in the table above are described in further detail as follows:

•Utility - Customers that are electric and gas utility companies;

•Renewable Energy Developers – Customers that develop, own and/or operate renewable energy solutions other than electric and gas utility companies;

•Communications - Customers that own and/or operate assets supporting delivery of data, communications and digital services; 

•Industrial - Customers that own and/or operate refinery, chemical and industrial facilities, as well as other commercial or manufacturing facilities;

•Energy Delivery - Customers that own and/or operate pipelines for the delivery of hydrocarbons; and

•Other - Customers that are not accurately described by the categories set forth above.

We believe utility, renewable energy, communications and industrial customers provide us with growth opportunities due to their long-term capital programs and/or the longer term trends associated with these industries. Our opportunities associated with energy delivery customers are dependent on the cyclicality of pipeline project activity, and capital programs for energy delivery and industrial customers have been negatively impacted by uncertainties and challenges in the energy market and 

6

overall economy caused by the pandemic associated with the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19). However, to the extent commodity prices continue to strengthen and the global economy continues to recover, we believe the outlook for services with respect to these customers will improve. For additional information on the trends associated with these customers and industries, see Overview - Business Environment and Results of Operations in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition of this Annual Report.

We are a preferred service provider for many of our customers, which generally means we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. We strive to maintain preferred status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the applicable customer. Furthermore, many of our strategic relationships with customers take the form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements, which typically extend for an initial term and may include renewal options to extend the initial term. Strategic alliance agreements also generally state an intention to work together over a period of time and/or on specific types of projects, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. 

Although we have an integrated marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating companies is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. Our operating company management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenues. Many of these customer relationships are long-standing and are maintained through a partnering approach with centralized account management, which includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. Additionally, operating company management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective customers. We also encourage operating company management to cross-sell services of our other operating companies to their customers and coordinate with our other operating companies to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complex. We believe our ability to provide services that cover a broad spectrum of our customers’ needs and requirements is a significant differentiator. Our corporate-level business development and regional management groups support these activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that are capable of utilizing services from multiple operating companies.

Competition and Market Demand

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with other contractors in the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. A significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. Accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors. However, customers often consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, safety ratings, financial and operational resources, geographic presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. In addition, competition may lessen as industry resources, such as labor supplies, approach capacity. There can be no assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. We also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we provide. Although these companies currently outsource a significant portion of these services, there can be no assurance that they will continue to do so in the future or that they will not acquire additional in-house capabilities.

For further information regarding the effects of competition on our business and trends in market demand affecting our business, see Risks Related to Operating Our Business and Risks Related to Our Industries in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report and Overview - Business Environment and Results of Operations in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition of this Annual Report.

Material Resources

Equipment. We depend on the availability of certain equipment, including specialty vehicles, to perform our services. We operate a fleet of owned and leased bucket trucks, digger derricks, trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment, such as sidebooms, dozers, backhoes, excavators, trenchers, generators, boring machines, cranes, robotic arms, wire pullers, tensioners and helicopters. As of December 31, 2021, the total size of the rolling stock fleet was approximately 70,000 units. A number of factors that we may not be able to predict or control could result in increased costs for, or delays in delivery of, this equipment, including the continued impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on the global supply chain, as well as global trade relationships and other general market and political conditions (e.g., inflation). For example, based on, among other things, the significant worldwide shortage of semiconductors, vehicle manufacturers are experiencing production delays with respect to new vehicles for our fleet (both on-road and specialty vehicles) and vehicle parts (e.g., tires), all of which we utilize in our operations. Certain of our vehicle delivery orders scheduled for delivery in 2022 have 

7

been delayed and canceled. While we believe we have taken steps to secure delivery of a sufficient amount of vehicles in the near term and do not anticipate any significant disruptions with respect to our fleet, to the extent the production issues become worse than expected or become longer-term in nature, our operations could be negatively impacted.

Project Materials. Our customers depend on the availability of certain materials for construction, upgrade and repair and maintenance of their infrastructure and are typically responsible for supplying most or all of the materials required for the services we perform on their projects, including, among other things, steel, copper, aluminum and components for renewable energy projects (e.g., solar panels, wind turbine blades). We monitor supply chain and other logistical challenges impacting our industries with respect to these materials; however, a number of factors that we and our customers may not be able to predict or control could result in increased costs for, or delays in delivery or lack of availability of, these materials, including, among other things, the continued impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on the global supply chain, global trade relationships (e.g., tariffs, sourcing restrictions) and other general market and political conditions (e.g., inflation). To the extent these or other dynamics delay our customers’ projects or impact their decision-making with respect to timing of future projects, our business and demand for our services could be negatively impacted. For example, we believe some participants in the renewable energy market are experiencing supply chain and sourcing challenges, resulting in delays and shortages of, and increased costs for, materials necessary for the construction of certain solar renewable projects in the near term. While we believe many of our renewable energy customers are better equipped to manage these disruptions than their smaller competitors, these challenges could impact our ability to perform these renewable services in the near term.

Additionally, pursuant to certain of our contracts, including contracts for our comprehensive engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) services, we are required to procure all or part of the materials needed for a project. We continue to expand our EPC services throughout our industries, and as a result our responsibility for procuring materials is expected to increase and the cost of materials may become a proportionately larger component of our consolidated cost of services. Furthermore, under these contracts, a number of factors that we may not be able to predict or control, including those described above with respect to our customers, could negatively impact our ability to procure the materials we have agreed to procure for a project. In such circumstances, we may be responsible for delays and additional costs associated with projects. 

For further information regarding the risks associated with availability of equipment and materials, see Risks Related to Operating Our Business in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report.

Seasonality and Cyclicality

Our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. These variations are influenced by, among other things, weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, receipt of required regulatory approvals, permits and rights of way, project timing and schedules, and holidays. Typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions can create challenging working environments that are more costly for our customers or cause delays on projects. In addition, infrastructure projects often do not begin in a meaningful way until our customers finalize their capital budgets, which typically occurs during the first quarter. Second quarter revenues are typically higher than those in the first quarter, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact productivity. Third quarter revenues are typically the highest of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and operating conditions, including weather, are normally more accommodating. Generally, revenues during the fourth quarter are lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter, as many projects are completed and customers often seek to spend their capital budgets before year end. However, the holiday season and inclement weather can sometimes cause delays during the fourth quarter, reducing revenues and increasing costs. These seasonal impacts are typical for our U.S. operations, but seasonality for our international operations may differ. For additional information on seasonality and cyclicality, please see Significant Factors Impacting Results within Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report.

Regulation

Compliance with numerous regulations has a material effect on our operations. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including:

•licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors and engineers;

•regulations relating to worker safety (e.g., Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations) and environmental protection;

•permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects;

•wage and hour regulations and regulations associated with our collective bargaining agreements and unionized workforce;

•regulations relating to sourcing and transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements; 

8

•regulations relating to aviation activities;

•building and electrical codes; 

•applicable U.S. and non-U.S. anti-corruption regulations; 

•immigration regulations applicable to U.S. and cross-border employment; and

•special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects.

We believe that we are in compliance with all material licensing and regulatory requirements that are necessary to conduct our operations. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, as well as give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or disqualify us from future bidding opportunities. Additionally, the overall regulatory environment can impact our customers’ projects and demand for our services, and in connection with the current heightened regulatory environment and increased regulatory enforcement and challenges, our customers have experienced delays, reductions in scope and cancellations of projects. We are also subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, liability can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties or currently owned properties at which hazardous substances or wastes were discharged or disposed of by a former owner or operator, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. The presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could also interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or use it as collateral for financing. In addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations or be subject to revocation of certain licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Our contracts with customers may also impose liability on us for environmental issues that arise through the performance of our services. As a result, from time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance.

For further information regarding the effects of regulation on our business, see Risks Related to Operating Our Business and Risks Related Regulation and Compliance in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report and Overview - Business Environment in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition of this Annual Report.

Human Capital Resources 

We believe our employees are our most important assets, and we focus significant attention and resources on attracting, developing and retaining talented and experienced individuals. We believe our industry-leading training and safety programs are a strength and competitive differentiator with not only our current and potential employees, but with our customers, which have high safety standards and are increasing the amount of their outsourced infrastructure services. Our operations are decentralized and labor-intensive, and we rely on craft skilled labor personnel and experienced operators to successfully manage our day-to-day business, as well as corporate management and professional personnel to coordinate and execute our business strategies, allocate capital and coordinate equipment usage, and facilitate certain centralized administrative services.

Employee Profile

As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 43,700 employees, consisting of approximately 8,600 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and field personnel, and approximately 35,100 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects that are ongoing and planned at any particular time. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 36,800 U.S. employees and approximately 6,900 non-U.S. employees, with the majority of our non-U.S. employees based in Canada. Additionally, approximately 35% of our employees as of December 31, 2021 were covered by collective bargaining agreements, which require the payment of specified wages, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multiemployer pension plans and employee benefit trusts. These collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates, and the majority contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewals, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement.

Employee Health and Safety

Performance of our services requires the use of heavy equipment and exposure to inherently hazardous conditions. In response to these inherent hazards and as part of our commitment to the safety of our employees, customers and third parties, our corporate and operating company management personnel have established safety programs, policies and procedures and 

9

ongoing training requirements for our employees and have also developed and implemented critical safety equipment and innovations. For example, on our project sites we have implemented emergency response plans, first aid training and automated external defibrillators, which have helped save the lives our employees and bystanders. We have also continued to invest significant resources in our safety training facilities, including the Quanta Advanced Training Center, located in Texas, and our safety monitoring tools, including fleet management software. Our operating companies also develop and share best practices for safety policies and practices, and we have an established program for onboarding newly acquired companies and working with them to augment their existing safety practices as necessary. 

Furthermore, throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, the majority of our operations have continued, as they have been deemed essential to critical infrastructure. In response to the changing operating environment during the course of the pandemic, we implemented additional safety protocols and procedures to protect the health and safety of our employees, such as the adoption of specialized training initiatives and the utilization of additional protective equipment for our employees operating in the field and additional sanitation measures for our offices, vehicles and equipment. During the course of the pandemic, as circumstances dictated and in accordance with legal requirements, we also reduced non-essential business travel, applied work-from-home policies and developed other human resource guidance to help employees. We have not experienced any meaningful impact on the availability of our workforce or key personnel as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Employee Recruiting, Development and Training

Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified employees, including craft skilled labor, engineers, architects, designers, management and professional and administrative employees.

Craft Skilled Labor. Our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen and specialty craft labor in certain geographic areas. Our customers continue to seek additional specialized labor resources to address an aging utility workforce and longer-term labor availability issues, increasing pressure to reduce costs and improve reliability, and increasing duration and complexity of their capital programs. We believe these trends will continue, possibly to such a degree that demand for labor resources will outpace supply. Furthermore, the increased demand for our services based on favorable dynamics in certain of our industries can create shortages of qualified labor. In order to take advantage of available opportunities and successfully implement our long-term strategy, we must be able to employ, train and retain the necessary skilled personnel. As a result, we support and utilize various training and educational programs, have developed additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs and developed strategic relationships with universities, the military and unions. 

For example, we own and operate Northwest Lineman College, a postsecondary educational institution that provides training programs for the electric power infrastructure, communications and underground utility and infrastructure industries and specializes in pre-apprenticeship training, apprenticeship training and specialized utility task training for electric workers. We also continue to invest in our education and training capabilities at the Quanta Advanced Training Center, which include programs for, among other things, beginning linemen, energized electric power services, lead and cable splicing, directional drilling, gas distribution services and pipeline integrity training. These programs provide classroom and on-the-job training programs and allow us to train employees in a controlled environment without the challenges of limited structure access and utility constraints.

Additionally, we have entered into strategic relationships with universities, the military and unions in order to attract potential employees and develop our workforce. For example, our operating companies performing more sophisticated and technical jobs utilize, when applicable, training programs provided by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers/National Electrical Contractors Associations (IBEW/NECA) Apprenticeship Program, training programs sponsored by the four trade unions administered by the Pipe Line Contractors Association (PLCA), apprenticeship training programs sponsored by the Canadian Union of Skilled Workers (CUSW) or our equivalent programs. Certain of our operating companies have also established apprenticeship training programs approved by the U.S. Department of Labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program. In addition, the Laborers International Union of North America, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the United Association of Plumbers and Pipefitters and the International Union of Operating Engineers have training programs specifically designed for developing and improving the skills of their members who work in the pipeline construction industry. Our operating companies also share best practices for training and educational programs.

For additional information on the risks associated with labor resources in our industries, see Risks Related to Operating Our Business in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report and Overview - Business Environment in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition of this Annual Report.

Management and Professional Personnel. Due to our decentralized operating structure, significant decision-making authority resides with our operating company management, and our corporate management and professional and administrative personnel are relied upon to allocate capital and communicate, coordinate and help execute our business strategies. We are focused on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees for these important positions, and a shortage of these employees 

10

for various reasons, including intense competition for skilled employees, labor shortages, increased labor costs, and candidates’ preference to work remotely, may jeopardize our ability to successfully manage our decentralized operations or our ability to grow and expand our business. We have also implemented enterprise-wide talent development and succession planning programs designed to identify and develop future and/or replacement candidates for key positions. For example, we have developed and administer a succession program with respect to our executive officers and senior operating company personnel, which is reviewed and/or overseen by our Board of Directors. 

Compensation and Benefits 

Our compensation programs are generally designed to align employee compensation with market practices and our performance, as well as provide the proper incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees. With respect to our executive officers, operating company management, other senior leadership and corporate employees, compensation programs consist of both fixed and variable components. The fixed portion is generally set at market levels, with variable compensation designed to reward employees based on company performance. We also grant stock-based compensation broadly throughout our organization, including to management and key operations personnel at the majority of our operating companies, which we believe is a key component of our compensation programs that helps to align incentives throughout our decentralized organization. We also enter into employment agreements with our executive officers and certain other key personnel. For additional information regarding our executive compensation, please see the information required in Item 11. Executive Compensation, which will be incorporated by reference to our definitive proxy statement related to our 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

We also provide additional benefits to our employees. For example, we provide health, welfare and benefit plans for most employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we maintain a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible U.S. employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through payroll deductions and to which we make certain matching contributions.

Ethics and Compliance

All of our employees are subject to Quanta’s Code of Conduct, which addresses compliance with applicable laws and Quanta’s policies concerning, among other things, general business ethics, competition, anti-corruption and bribery, environmental protection, conflicts of interest, harassment and discrimination, data security and privacy, and insider trading. Quanta’s Code of Conduct also informs employees and third parties about the resources and confidential reporting mechanisms available to detect, prevent and report unethical and illegal conduct, and our Chief Compliance Officer communicates directly with our Board of Directors about actual and alleged violations of the law or the Code of Conduct. Training with respect to Quanta’s Code of Conduct and other policies and procedures is conducted as part of our comprehensive ethics and compliance training program.

Climate Change-Related Impacts

Our management considers climate-related risks and opportunities in connection with its long-term strategic planning and enterprise risk management process, which are overseen by our Board of Directors. While the overall impact on our operations continues to evolve, various aspects of climate change, as well as market and societal concerns about the future impact of climate change, have resulted and are expected to continue to result in operational opportunities and challenges. These opportunities and challenges arise from the physical risks associated with changes in climate, as well as technological advances, market developments and additional regulatory and compliance costs.

Changes in climate have caused, and are expected to continue to cause, among other things, increasing temperatures, rising sea levels and changes to patterns and intensity of wildfires, hurricanes, floods, winter storms and other storms and severe weather-related events and natural disasters. Our operating results can be significantly influenced by the climates in which we operate and severe weather events, and these changes have and could continue to significantly impact our future operating results. A greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions, as well as an increase in severe weather events and natural disasters, reduces our productivity and causes delays and cancellations of our ongoing projects. For example, hurricanes and tropical storms in the U.S. Gulf Coast region have impacted our ability to perform industrial services operations during certain periods. However, an increase in certain of these events, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, wildfires, blizzards and ice storms, also creates opportunities for us to perform a greater amount of emergency restoration services and can increase customer spending on modernization, grid hardening and other infrastructure improvements (e.g., fire hardening programs in California and the western United States and storm hardening in coastal regions). For example, during 2021, several strong hurricanes and other severe weather events resulted in emergency restoration services revenues at levels comparable to 2020, when record levels of hurricane activity in the United States resulted in record levels of emergency restoration services revenues for us. Additionally, changes in climate could result in more accommodating weather patterns for greater periods of time in certain areas, which may enable us to increase our productivity in those areas.

11

Physical risks associated with climate change have also increased hazards associated with certain of our operations, which in turn has increased the potential for liability and increased the costs associated with such operations. For example, severe drought and high wind speeds in the western United States, Australia and other locations have significantly increased the risk of wildfires, which in turn has exposed us and other contractors to increased risk of liability in connection with our operations in those locations, as these events can be started by failure of electrical power and other infrastructure on which we have performed services. Given the potentially significant liabilities associated with these events, to the extent we are deemed liable for a wildfire event, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. Furthermore, these climate conditions have also resulted in increased costs for wildfire-related third-party insurance and reduced the amount insurance carriers are willing to make available to us under such policies, as described further in Risk Management and Insurance below. 

Climate change has also caused, and is expected to continue to cause, changes in the markets in which we operate. For example, in support of the transition to a carbon-neutral economy, utility customers are transitioning toward more sustainable sources of power generation, such as renewables (e.g., wind and solar) coupled with battery storage technology, and are replacing aging, less efficient infrastructure. Concerns regarding climate change are also leading to the increased electrification of consumer goods (e.g., electric vehicles), which is expected to provide continued additional demand for new and expanded electric power infrastructure and reengineering of existing electric power infrastructure. We believe these market dynamics and technological advances provide significant opportunities for us, including increased demand for our renewable energy infrastructure services, which we have significantly expanded through our acquisition of Blattner, as well as our portfolio of electric power infrastructure services. 

The increasing focus on climate change has also impacted markets within our Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions segment. Certain services within this segment have experienced challenges, and could continue to experience challenges, related to a transition toward a carbon-neutral economy. For example, concerns about the impact of certain large pipeline projects on the environment, among other things, have contributed to significant delays and cancellations of certain projects in recent years, and as a result we have decreased our focus on these service offerings. Furthermore, a longer-term decline in demand for fossil fuels or refined products as a result of climate change concerns and/or regulation could further negatively impact these projects or negatively impact demand for our midstream and industrial services operations. However, we believe there are climate change-related opportunities for certain services in this segment that are associated with safety and environmental initiatives, including integrity, rehabilitation and replacement services related to existing pipeline infrastructure, as well as longer-term opportunities for services that would support customer strategies to reduce carbon emissions (e.g., hydrogen blending into natural gas flow, carbon capture, pipeline infrastructure repurposing and renewable natural gas and bio-diesel facilities). We also believe the timeline for the transition to a carbon-neutral economy will be extended and will need to be supported by certain legacy energy resources, and therefore have strategically focused on expanding our natural gas utility services in recent years.

Lastly, new legislation or regulation related to climate change could increase our costs. Most significantly, we maintain a large fleet of vehicles and a significant amount of construction machinery, and the costs associated therewith could significantly increase as a result of regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions from such sources or regulations that result in an increase in fuel prices.

For additional information regarding the risks and opportunities described above, see Risks Related to Operating Our Business in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report and Overview - Business Environment and Overview - Significant Factors Impacting Results in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition of this Annual Report.

Risk Management and Insurance

We maintain insurance coverage from third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. We are insured for, among other things, employer’s liability, workers’ compensation, auto liability, aviation and general liability claims. We manage and maintain a portion of our casualty risk indirectly through our wholly-owned captive insurance company, which reimburses claims up to the amount of the applicable deductible of our third-party insurance programs. In connection with our casualty insurance programs, we are required to issue letters of credit to secure our obligations. Deductibles for the employer’s liability and workers’ compensation programs are $5.0 million per occurrence, and deductibles for the auto liability and general liability programs are $15.0 million per occurrence. We also maintain employee health care benefit plans for the benefit of most of our employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $0.8 million per claimant per year. 

Losses under our insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. 

12

We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. In addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, including wildfires, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance based on the potential benefits considered relative to the cost of such insurance, or coverage may not be available at reasonable and competitive rates. In any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For example, due to the increased occurrence and future risk of wildfires in California and other areas in the western United States, Australia and other locations, insurers have reduced coverage availability and increased the cost of insurance coverage for such events in recent years. As a result, our level of insurance coverage for wildfire events has decreased in recent years and the current level of coverage may not be sufficient to cover potential losses in connection with these events. Our third-party insurers could decide to further reduce, exclude or increase the cost of coverage for wildfires or other events in connection with future insurance renewals. In any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Website Access and Other Information

Our website address is www.quantaservices.com. Interested parties may obtain free electronic copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading Investor Relations / SEC Filings or through the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) at www.sec.gov. These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. We will also make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC. For copies of this or any other Quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to Quanta Services, Inc., Attn: Corporate Secretary, 2800 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 2600, Houston, Texas 77056, or by phone at (713) 629-7600. 

Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information and make other public disclosures of information regarding Quanta through SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls, and our website. We also utilize social media to communicate this information, and it is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed material. Accordingly, we encourage investors, the media and others interested in our company to follow Quanta, and review the information we post, on the social media channels listed on our website in the Investors Relations / Social Media section.

This Annual Report, our website and our social media channels contain information provided by other sources that we believe is reliable. We cannot provide assurance that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. No information on our website or our social media channels is incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors