ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Interest Rate Risk

Our major market risk exposure of our financial instruments is changing interest rates in the United States and fluctuations in LIBOR or, following the termination of LIBOR, SOFR. We intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination of fixed and floating rate debt. The carrying value of our variable rate debt approximates fair value because interest rates are variable and, accordingly, approximates current market rates for instruments with similar risk and maturities. The fair value of our debt is determined as of the balance sheet date and is subject to change. We have historically entered into multiple swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on our variable rate debt. 

The table below provides information about certain of our market-sensitive financial instruments and constitutes a forward-looking statement.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The fixed and variable rate debt amounts above exclude the remaining non-cash discounts, premiums and adjustments to fair value totaling $123.9 million. 

As of December 31, 2021, we had $1,213.4 million of floating rate debt and $300.0 million of floating interest rate swap contracts. If interest rates increased or decreased by 100 basis points on our variable rate debt, annualized interest expense and net cash payments for interest would increase or decrease by approximately $15 million. This analysis does not reflect the effect that interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings and the impact on the economy. See Note 9, Debt, of the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information regarding how we manage interest rate risk.

Fuel Price Risk

Fuel costs represent a significant operating expense. When economically practical, we may enter into new fuel hedges, renew contracts, or engage in other strategies to mitigate market risk. As of December 31, 2021, we had no fuel hedges in place. While we charge fuel recovery fees to a majority of our customers, we are unable to charge such fees to all customers. 

At current consumption levels, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel would change our fuel costs by approximately $26 million per year. Offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. At current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel would change our fuel recovery fee by approximately $26 million per year.

Our operations also require the use of certain petrochemical-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. An increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. We also are susceptible to increases in fuel recovery fees from our vendors.

55
Our fuel costs were $383.0 million in 2021, or 3.4% of revenue, compared to $271.7 million in 2020, or 2.7% of revenue.

Commodities Price Risk

We market recovered materials such as old corrugated containers and old newsprint from our recycling processing centers. Changes in market supply and demand for recycled commodities causes volatility in commodity prices. In prior periods, we have entered into derivative instruments such as swaps and costless collars designated as cash flow hedges to manage our exposure to changes in prices of these commodities. As of December 31, 2021, we had no recycling commodity hedges in place. 

At current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities would change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $22 million and $10 million, respectively.

Revenue from recycling processing and commodity sales during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 was $420.5 million and $297.1 million, respectively. 

56
ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]