PART I

Item 1. Business

The Company: SEE 

Our PurposeWe are in business to protect, 

to solve critical packaging challenges, and 

to make our world better than we find it. 

Sealed Air Corporation (“SEE”, “Sealed Air”, or the “Company”, also referred to as “we”, “us”, or “our”) is a leading global provider of packaging solutions integrating high-performance materials, automation, equipment and services. SEE designs and delivers packaging solutions that preserve food, protect goods, automate packaging processes, and enable e-commerce and digital connectivity for packaged goods. Our packaging solutions are designed to help customers automate their operations to be increasingly touchless and more resilient, safer, less wasteful, and enhance brand engagement with consumers.

We deliver our packaging solutions to an array of end markets including fresh proteins, foods, fluids, medical and healthcare, e-commerce, logistics and omnichannel fulfillment operations, and industrials. We serve customers across 114 countries/territories directly and through a diversified distribution network. We aim to deliver savings to our customers and accelerate payback on their investments. We invest in technology and innovation that transform our industry toward a more sustainable future.

Our portfolio of solutions includes leading brands such as CRYOVAC® brand food packaging, SEALED AIR® brand protective packaging, AUTOBAG® brand automated packaging, BUBBLE WRAP® brand packaging and SEE Automation™ solutions. 

In 2021, we generated net sales of $5.5 billion, net earnings from continuing operations of $491 million, and net cash provided by operating activities of $710 million. Please refer to Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for financial information about the Company and its subsidiaries, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

We have two reportable segments, Food and Protective. Refer to “Reportable Segments” below for additional information. 

Vision and Strategy

Our VisionTo become a world-class, digitally-driven company automating sustainable packaging solutions

Our strategy is focused on creating an inimitable customer packaging experience by advancing packaging solutions integrating SEE Automation, Digital, and Sustainability. 

SEE caring high-performance people + digital culture. We are bringing people together with a future that is more digitally connected. We prioritize our people and recognize the importance they play in realizing our purpose. Through digital platforms, we are accelerating our efforts to retain, attract and motivate top talent, train our leadership teams, develop future leaders, shape a caring, high-performance organization and culture, and drive top benchmark employee engagement.

Creating SEE Touchless Automation™ experience. With our SEE Automation™ solutions, we aim to solve our customers’ automation needs while creating significant return on their investments through savings and increased productivity. We have focused on increasing our equipment offerings which help our customers automate packaging processes. In addition, through our SEE Operating Engine, we are automating our own operations to make them more sustainable and generate productivity savings. 

Lead the industry with Digital transformation. We have launched the MySEE digital e-commerce platform to make doing business with SEE easier and more efficient. We are investing in automation and digital technologies that enhance performance, efficiency and monitoring in customers’ and our own operations. We are developing smart packaging that can enable traceability and deliver digital content. We are investing in digital printing to drive customer savings, generate demand and enhance brand image and shelf impact.

3

Sustainability is core to our business. Sustainability is embedded in our purpose and vision. We have set ambitious environmental goals aimed to lead the industry towards a better future. We are designing high-performance packaging materials with recyclability in mind, to make sustainability more affordable, and to create a pathway for a circular economy. We are transforming our operations and our customers’ operations with SEE Touchless Automation™ which aims to improve efficiency, eliminate waste, simplify processes, and create a safer working environment.

Purpose driven capital allocation to create value to our shareholders and society. Our capital allocation strategy fuels the SEE Operating Engine and is rooted in economic value add with the goal to drive profitable, above market organic growth, and attractive returns on invested capital. We invest through capital expenditures, research and development spend, acquisitions, and investments aligned with our strategy. SEE Ventures is embedded in our capital allocation strategy. Under SEE Ventures, we invest in entrepreneurial and disruptive technologies that present opportunities to accelerate innovation and increase speed to market. Dividends and share repurchases have been used to return capital to shareholders. 

Continuously Reinventing SEE Operating Engine from Innovate to Solve

Since launching our Reinvent SEE business transformation in 2018, we have sought to transform how we innovate, buy, make and solve our customers’ most critical packaging challenges. The capabilities, operational disciplines, and governance processes established through the Reinvent SEE business transformation are embedded in our on-going continuous improvement system, SEE Operating Engine, and demonstrating sustained results. Our Reinvent SEE goal-oriented behaviors are focused on the 4P'SSM: 

Performance: World-class

Outperform the markets we serve with our SEE Operating Engine; create customer references by offering the best service and being “at the table and online” with our customers; execute a purpose-driven capital allocation mindset.

People + Digital: SEE caring high-performance culture

Leveraging the power of operating as One SEE, driving productivity, swarming challenges and opportunities; creating a digital connection between people and the customer experience both internally and externally; rewarding value creation, executing talent strategies to develop, retain and attract top talent; focus on diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) leadership and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) excellence.

Platforms: Best Solutions, right price, make them sustainable

Focus on leading solutions that generate customer savings; SEE Touchless Automation™ - doing more with less by investing and working smarter; aiming to create significant customer savings.

Processes: SEE Operating Engine

Embed SEE Operating Engine into everything we do thereby eliminating waste, automating and simplifying processes, and removing people from harm’s way. 

Sustainability: Make our world better than we find it

Drive environmental, social, and governance excellence by focusing on achieving goals that aim to make our world better than we find it. SEE is dedicating innovation, research and development resources to design or advance packaging materials to be recyclable or reusable and contain more recycled and or renewable content and has announced a goal to reach net-zero carbon emissions within our operations by 2040.

The Reinvent SEE business transformation has driven significant structural operating leverage in the business and resulted in incremental Adjusted EBITDA benefits of $64 million during 2021. The restructuring and associated cost component of the Reinvent SEE business transformation is now expected to conclude by mid-2022. 

Refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a reconciliation of net earnings from continuing operations based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) to total company Adjusted EBITDA presented on a basis which does not conform to U.S. GAAP, which we refer to as “non-U.S. GAAP.”

Competitive Strengths 

Our growth strategy leverages our competitive strengths in high-performance packaging solutions, well-established customer relationships, iconic brands, and global scale and market access.

4

High-performance Packaging Solutions. For food industries we provide packaging materials, automated equipment, and services that extend shelf life, ensure safety, and enhance brand image and shelf impact, while driving operational excellence by eliminating waste, increasing processing speeds and reducing customers’ labor dependency. Within e-commerce and industrial markets, we offer a broad range of protective packaging materials and automation solutions that prevent product damage, increase order fulfillment velocity, and generate savings through reductions in waste, dimensional weight and labor.

Well-established Customer Relationships. We have a broad and diversified customer base which includes the world’s leading food processors, e-commerce/fulfillment companies and industrial manufacturers. We look to create long-term relationships with leaders in the markets we serve. We leverage extensive knowledge of our customers’ businesses when innovating new solutions, and partner with customers to effectively implement our solutions and automate their operations. Our customer base is diverse, with no single customer or affiliated group of customers representing more than 10% of net sales in 2021, 2020 or 2019.

Iconic Brands. Our portfolio of leading packaging solutions includes CRYOVAC® brand food packaging, SEALED AIR® brand protective packaging, AUTOBAG® brand automated systems, BUBBLE WRAP® brand packaging, and SEE Automation™ solutions. Our iconic brands represent long-tenured leadership in the packaging industry and are propelling us forward into the future. We strive to ensure these brands continue to represent our commitment to deliver safety, security, performance and innovation.

Global Scale and Market Access. SEE serves a diverse global customer base with a sales and distribution network reaching 114 countries/territories. In 2021, 47% of net sales were from outside the U.S. Our global scale and agility have enabled us to address the evolving customer needs across our end markets and geographies and position us to capitalize on growth opportunities in markets around the world. We operate through our subsidiaries and have a presence in the U.S. and 45 other countries/territories listed below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We face risks inherent in these international operations, such as currency fluctuations, supply chain disruptions, inflation and political instability. Information on currency exchange risk appears in Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Other risks attendant to our international operations are set forth in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Information on the impact of currency exchange on our Consolidated Financial Statements appears in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Financial information showing net sales for the year ended December 31, 2021 and total long-lived assets by geographic region as of December 31, 2021 appears in Note 6, “Segments,” set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” which is incorporated herein by reference.

Innovation, Research and Development

Our innovation, research and development capabilities encompass a broad range of disciplines including food science, materials science, chemical, mechanical, electrical and software engineering, microbiology, digital applications development, digital printing, and packaging automation equipment design and engineering. 

Our research and development activities are principally performed in:

•four Packaging Solutions Development and Innovation Centers located in the U.S., Italy and Singapore;

•eight Equipment Design Centers in the U.S., France, Switzerland, Italy and Singapore, targeting innovation in equipment and digital solutions; and

•39 Package Design and Applications Centers for Protective located in a number of different countries.

5

Our research and development expense was $100 million in 2021, $96 million in 2020 and $77 million in 2019. In addition to our direct spend, we also, from time to time, seek to expand our research and development capabilities through acquisitions and strategic equity or other investments made through SEE Ventures.

We own or are the licensee of approximately 2,875 U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications, and approximately 2,480 U.S. and foreign trademark registrations and trademark applications that relate to many of our products, manufacturing processes and equipment. We file annually an average of approximately 270 U.S. and foreign patent applications and approximately 30 U.S. and foreign trademark applications. Our business is not dependent upon any single patent or trademark alone. Rather, we believe that our success depends primarily on our sales and service, marketing, engineering and manufacturing skills and on our ongoing innovation and research and development efforts. We believe that the expiration or unenforceability of any single one of our patents, applications, licenses or trademark registrations would not be material to our business or our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

Environmental Sustainability

At SEE, environmental sustainability is integrated in our business strategy. Our priorities and commitments represent what we believe is important to creating a future that is more sustainable.

Accelerating the advancement of a circular economy. We are working to achieve our 2025 Sustainability and Materials Pledge aimed to increase materials circularity in the industry through innovation, reducing plastic and other materials waste and collaborating for change. The three components of our 2025 Sustainability and Materials Pledge are:

Invest in Innovation - Dedicating innovation, research and development resources to design or advance packaging materials to be recyclable or reusable and contain more recycled and or renewable content. 

Reduce Plastic and Other Materials Waste - Achieving ambitious targets of recycled content across all packaging solutions which maximize recycled content. Specifically, the Company has a commitment to eliminate waste by incorporating a greater percentage of recycled or renewable content into our solutions. 

Collaborate for Change - Building strategic partnerships, combining talent, resources and experience to scale solutions that drive a circular economy. This includes technology investments to facilitate the reuse, collection and recycling of plastic. To that end, SEE is a member of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste and an active participant in the American Chemistry Council.

Mitigating climate change. The Company has announced goals designed to mitigate climate change including Science Based Targets, in line with the Science Based Targets initiative ("SBTi"), for our Scopes 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas intensity reductions, and a goal to reach net-zero carbon emissions within our operations by 2040.

We are in the process of developing long-term expenditure forecasts to meet our goals. Meeting our net-zero carbon emissions pledge will require significant capital investment in our operations. We also may invest in renewable energy credits, carbon offsets, or similar programs to aid in reaching our goals, the cost of which were not material in the year ended December 31, 2021, but may be so in future years.

Driving SEE Operational Excellence in our own operations. We focus on reducing climate-related emissions, water use, energy use, and waste in our operations and throughout the supply chain while innovating, manufacturing and delivering high-performance packaging solutions. 

Our Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) strategy is overseen and directed by a steering committee which is comprised of executive officers of SEE. They meet on a regular basis. At the Board of Directors level, the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee assists the Board in overseeing our sustainability strategies and other material matters concerning environmental, social and governance and public policy issues affecting the Company.

We face risks inherent in achieving our sustainability goals, such as the cost for each initiative, changes in future regulations and policies that may be more restrictive than our stated goals, and the availability of resources (such as renewable energy credits, renewable energy sources, carbon offsets), among others. Other risks attendant to the environment and climate change are set forth in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

6

Human Capital

Overview

We are bringing people together with a future that is more digitally connected. We prioritize our people and the experience they have being part of SEE as we recognize the importance they play in realizing our purpose, shaping a caring, high-performance organization and culture, and delivering world-class experiences and opportunities for our customers and other stakeholders.

Our purpose-driven high-performance culture is focused on driving operational excellence. We seek to create an employee community comprised of people with desired expertise and talent from diverse backgrounds, and who care about making the world better. We believe improving our workplace diversity and supporting an inclusive culture will make us better. We invest in the total well-being and experience of our people through a variety of initiatives such as our Flexible Way of Work offering, and we strive to help our employees live better, stay healthy, and be more productive.

SEE's management regularly reports and discusses our workforce and people management strategies and related matters with our Board of Directors and the Organization and Compensation Committee (“O&C Committee”) of the Board of Directors, including matters related to compensation, succession planning, corporate culture, employee engagement, and diversity, equity and inclusion.

Our values represent the fundamental beliefs upon which we aim to base our business and behaviors.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2021, our employee population was approximately 16,500 people. The largest component of SEE's workforce is approximately 10,300 direct manufacturing employees in our manufacturing facilities. We also generally employ:

•marketing, sales, business development and technical packaging solutions professionals who work in the field and at our customers' facilities; 

•innovation, research and development, digital, automation and sustainability focused employees who work in one of our four comprehensive packaging solutions development and innovation centers; and 

•customer service and support personnel as well as administrative and management employees who work in our offices and in remote environments. 

As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 7,000 employees in the U.S. and approximately 9,500 employees outside the U.S. Our workforce is relatively stable and does not have significant seasonal fluctuations. 

We had approximately 120 U.S. employees and 4,925 non-U.S. employees who were covered by collective bargaining agreements as of December 31, 2021. Many of the covered employees are represented by works councils or industrial boards, as is customary in the jurisdictions in which they are employed. The collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 56% of such employees, primarily outside the U.S., will expire during 2022 and we will be engaged in negotiations to attain new agreements.

Code of Conduct, Ethics and Core Competencies

The Company maintains a written Code of Conduct which reflects our purpose and values as an organization and how we should act. It encourages all employees to promote an ethical culture and to recognize and report integrity and compliance issues. Our Code of Conduct guides us in how to manage our daily processes and interactions with professionalism, respect and integrity. Employees attest annually to reviewing and adhering to the Code of Conduct. 

Employees receive regular online education as part of enhanced global ethics and compliance programs. This training includes required and monitored course training for employees in specific roles based on associated risk and function. Required sessions include the Code of Conduct, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, and workplace respect, among other legal and compliance subject matters.

7

SEE Culture

In 2021, the Company created the Culture Council to assist in leading our culture transformation. The Culture Council is focused on executing six workstreams designed to further embed our high-performance culture throughout our organization.

The workstreams are: 

Community Impact: responsible for establishing a framework and resources to encourage active involvement in global philanthropic efforts, to empower local community engagement and to scale social impact in our communities.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion: helps to promote a diverse, equitable, trusting and inclusive culture for all employees.

SEE Academy: helps to nurture a learning culture that thrives on personal growth and development, strengthening our capabilities to deliver world-class results.

SEE Operating Engine: capturing our transformation success into a breakthrough operating engine that continues to reinvent our business from within. 

Operational Excellence: seeks to embed an intentional mindset where every employee continually pursues opportunities to improve our 4P’SSM behaviors.

Total Wellbeing and Experience: responsible for strengthening our people through total wellbeing, physical and mental health, social, career, financial and community impact.

Our workstreams are supported by Change Champions who comprise a working group made up of global change agents to help drive our culture and provide feedback for areas of improvement.

Health and Safety

As a company with manufacturing operations across the world, protecting the health, safety and well-being of our people is a top priority. We have a goal of zero harm and we intentionally manage our operations to provide employees with a safe and healthy working environment. 

SEE maintains an Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) policy which outlines the Company’s commitment to integrate EHS principles in all aspects of the business including products, operations, and supply chain. The policy requires our employees and contractors to conduct business in accordance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and understand and comply with company procedures and guidelines to protect the environment, health and safety of themselves and their co-workers. 

We have a formal process in place for managing, tracking, and reporting health and safety which includes incident analysis meetings which are conducted with leadership. Reporting is elevated to the regional leadership and global executive level monthly. 

Our global safety training program includes more than 150 preventive courses including behavioral-based safety training, hazard identification, and risk assessment. Additionally, we provide access to multiple customized trainings that educate employees on the safe execution of their jobs in an environmentally responsible manner.

All operations are required to implement the relevant elements of our EHS Management System. Implementation of EHS standards and guidelines takes place at the plant/office level and is assessed through a periodic review process.

Throughout the COVID-19 crisis, SEE has followed the recommendations and guidance of health authorities and local governments across the globe and instituted precautionary measures for employees at all its facilities worldwide, including enhanced cleaning procedures, quarantine and testing protocols, temperature checks, face masks, engineered social distancing, remote work arrangements for non-location-dependent employees, restricted visitor access, and travel limitations.

8

The Company held vaccine clinics and provided other means of vaccine access to employees and their families at many of its sites across the globe. The vaccine clinic held at SEE’s North Carolina headquarters was open to the public as well as employees.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

We are a global company with an employee population representing a broad diversity of cultures, languages, ethnicities, and races. We recognize the value of workplace diversity and support an inclusive culture across the globe. We evaluate talent acquisition, performance management, employee experience, career development, and succession planning processes to identify and remove unintended biases and facilitate increased diversity of our leadership talent pipeline. In 2021, we announced our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Pledge and 2025 Goals, encompassing the following: 

•Championing equal pay for work of equal value across our organization; 

•Leading with a senior leadership team that reflects the cultural diversity of our global footprint; 

•Increasing gender diversity across employees globally to more than 30%; 

•Increasing the representation of racial and ethnic minorities in our United States workforce to above 35%; and 

•Building a more inclusive culture with our employees across the globe. 

As of December 31, 2021, 25% of our global employee base are female and 34% of our U.S. workforce belong to racial and ethnic minority groups. Biannually, SEE conducts a global comprehensive pay equity analysis to identify compensation disparities by gender across the world and by ethnic and racial diversity within the U.S. Identified inequities are mitigated to close the gaps and compensation processes are evaluated for unintended bias and continuously improved to prevent future adverse impact.

Recruiting, Retaining and Engaging Employees and Learning and Development

We believe that our success depends on our ability to attract, recruit, and retain employees with the desired expertise and talent.

SEE has a strong global talent acquisition model that attracts and places employees. From time to time, we conduct pulse surveys to solicit valuable and timely feedback from our employees on specific topics. We use the results of the pulse surveys for initiatives related to employee engagement including increased communication from managers or leaders, targeted training opportunities or other methods to improve our employees' career experiences. 

We are making significant investments to strengthen the skills, capabilities, and leadership potential of our employees. Employees have access to online tools to support ongoing learning and development and career growth. Additionally, the Company sponsors leadership programs targeted at employees of all levels from early-career entrants to executives. 

Reportable Segments

We report our segment information in accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 280, “Segment Reporting,” (“FASB ASC Topic 280”). See Note 6, “Segments,” set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further information.

Food

Food solutions are sold to food processors in fresh red meat, smoked and processed meats, poultry, seafood, plant-based and dairy (solid and liquids) markets worldwide. Food offers integrated packaging solutions combining high-performance materials and automated equipment solutions to increase food safety, extend shelf life, reduce food waste, automate processes and optimize total cost. Its innovative materials, automated equipment and service enables customers to reduce costs and enhance their brands in the marketplace. 

Food solutions are utilized by food service businesses (such as restaurants and entertainment venues) (“food service”) and food retailers (such as grocery stores and supermarkets) (“food retail”), among others. Solutions serving the food service market include products such as barrier bags and pouches, primarily marketed under the CRYOVAC® trademark and other highly recognized trade names including CRYOVAC® brand Barrier Bags, CRYOVAC® brand Form-Fill-Seal Films, and CRYOVAC® brand Auto Pouch Systems. Solutions serving the food retail market include products such as barrier bags, film, and trays, primarily marketed under the CRYOVAC® trademark and other highly recognized trade names including CRYOVAC® brand Grip & Tear™, CRYOVAC® brand Darfresh®, OptiDure™, Simple Steps®, and CRYOVAC® brand Barrier Bags.

9

Food solutions are well aligned to capitalize on global market dynamics driven by increasing labor scarcity and automation, continued urbanization, growth in ship-to-home food services, growing consumer preference for smaller portions and healthier food choices, and demand for more sustainable, secure packaging. Our solutions, which include high-performance materials, equipment, and services, are designed to preserve nutrition while enhancing food safety. 

Food applications are largely sold direct to customers by our sales, marketing and customer service personnel throughout the world. Sales to governments, or government contracts, are not material to our Food segment. No single customer or affiliated group of customers represents more than 10% of segment revenue in 2021.

There are other manufacturers of products similar to those produced by Food, some that operate across multiple regions and others that operate in a single region or single country. Competing manufacturers produce a wide variety of food packaging based on plastic, metals and other materials.

Protective

Protective packaging solutions are utilized across many global markets to protect goods during transit and are especially valuable to e-commerce, consumer goods, pharmaceutical and medical devices and industrial manufacturing. With automated equipment, high-performance materials, and services, our solutions are designed to increase our customers' packaging velocity, minimize packaging waste, reduce labor dependencies and address dimensional weight challenges. Our product breadth combined with our global scale and reach helps support our customers' needs for sustainability, performance excellence, consistency and reliability of supply wherever they operate around the world.

Protective solutions are marketed under SEALED AIR® brand, BUBBLE WRAP® brand, AUTOBAG® brand and other highly recognized trade names and product families including BUBBLE WRAP® brand inflatable packaging, SEALED AIR® brand performance shrink films, AUTOBAG® brand bagging systems, Instapak® polyurethane foam packaging solutions and Korrvu® suspension and retention packaging. In addition, we provide temperature assurance packaging solutions under the Kevothermal™ and TempGuard™ brands. 

Protective solutions are sold through a strategic network of distributors as well as directly to end customers, including, but not limited to, fabricators, original equipment manufacturers, contract manufacturers, logistics partners and e-commerce/fulfillment operations. In 2021, approximately 55% of our Protective sales were sold through distributors. We generally do not impose annual minimum purchase volume requirements on our distributors. Product returns from our distributors in 2021 were not material. Sales to governments, or government contracts, are not material to our Protective segment. No single customer or affiliated group of customers represented more than 10% of segment revenue in 2021.

There are other manufacturers of products similar to those produced by Protective. Additionally, there are products made using alternative packaging materials that customers use to provide protection against damage to their products during shipment and storage. Among the competitive materials are paper packaging, expanded plastics, corrugated die cuts, strapping, envelopes, reinforced bags, and corrugated boxes as well as various types of molded foam plastics, fabricated foam plastics, mechanical shock mounts, wood blocking and bracing systems, and an assortment of automated packaging and fulfillment systems. We believe that some of our direct competition within the protective packaging industry has a less diversified global presence. 

We believe that a focus on materials circularity, sustainability, and automation and equipment offerings will continue to define the direction of the competitive landscape into the future for both segments. Additionally, some of our Food and Protective competitors have been consolidating in recent years or have been involved in significant merger and acquisition activity, and we believe this trend may continue. Such consolidation could have an adverse impact on the pricing of our products and services and our ability to retain customers, which could in turn adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

Raw Materials and Purchasing

Suppliers provide raw materials, packaging components, contract manufactured goods, equipment and other direct materials, such as inks, films and paper. Our principal raw materials are polyolefin and other petrochemical-based resins, as well as paper pulp products. Raw materials typically represent approximately one-third of our consolidated cost of sales. We also purchase corrugated materials, cores for rolls of products such as films and Bubble Wrap® brand cushioning, inks for printed materials, and blowing agents used in the expansion of foam packaging products. In addition, we offer a wide variety of specialized packaging equipment, some of which we manufacture or have manufactured to our specifications, some of which we assemble and some of which we purchase from suppliers. Automated equipment and accessories are designed for e-commerce fulfillment centers, industrial and food packaging equipment.

10

The vast majority of the raw materials required for the manufacture of our products and all components related to our equipment and accessories generally have been readily available on the open market and, in most cases, are available from several suppliers and are available in amounts sufficient to meet our manufacturing requirements. However, in some regions we rely on some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material negative impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes or other severe weather events, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers and suppliers of other raw materials. Due to by-product/co-product chemical relationships to the automotive and housing markets, several materials may become difficult to source. These factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies, allocation of raw materials and other force majeure events by our suppliers. For example, throughout 2021, the Company experienced supply chain disruptions and sharp raw material price increases resulting from various factors including general inflationary pressure, limited availability of certain raw materials, global transportation disruptions and natural disasters such as Winter Storm Uri in February 2021. Refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional discussion of the impact of 2021 supply chain disruptions and raw material price increases.

Some materials used to manufacture our packaging products are sourced from recycled content from our operations or are obtained through our participation in recycling programs. Although we purchase some raw materials under long-term supply arrangements with third parties, these arrangements follow market forces and are in line with our overall global purchasing strategy, which seeks to balance the cost of acquisition and availability of supply.

We have a centralized supply chain organization, which includes centralized management of purchasing and logistic activities. Our objective is to leverage our global scale to achieve purchasing efficiencies and reduce our total delivered cost across all our regions. We do this while adhering to strategic performance metrics and stringent purchasing practices. 

Seasonality

On a consolidated basis, there is minimal seasonality in the business, with net sales slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter. Our consolidated results of operations typically trend directionally the same as our net sales seasonality. Historically, net sales in our Food segment have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter, due to holiday events. Net sales in our Protective segment have also tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and higher in the mid-third quarter and through the fourth quarter due to the holiday shopping season. However, the extent and timing of our results of operations may be difficult to predict if significant one-time transactions, events or non-recurring charges were to impact our business. Cash flow from operations has tended to be lower in the first quarter and higher in the fourth quarter, reflecting seasonality of sales and working capital changes, including the timing of certain annual incentive compensation payments.

The impact of raw material price changes and related pricing actions have impacted the timing of when our total net sales and our consolidated results of operations were earned throughout 2021. Additionally, changes in end-consumer behavior, such as an increase in e-commerce sales, or temporary social distancing restrictions due to COVID-19 or other factors, have in the past impacted the timing and seasonality of results of operations. Refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional discussion of our 2021 results.

Compliance with Government Regulations

As a manufacturer, we are subject to various laws, rules and regulations in the countries/territories, jurisdictions and localities in which we operate. These cover, among other things, the safe storage and use of raw materials and production chemicals, the release of materials into the environment, and standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. We have an environmental management system that aids in our management of environmental, health and safety matters pertaining to our operations. Key elements of this environmental management system are implemented throughout our operations. We believe that compliance with current environmental and workplace health and safety laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures or consolidated financial condition.

In some jurisdictions in which our packaging products are sold or used, laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that seek to regulate, among other things, minimum levels of recycled or reprocessed content and, more generally, the sale or disposal of packaging materials. We maintain programs designed to comply with these laws and regulations and to monitor their evolution. Various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regulate some of our products and require us to register certain products and comply with specified requirements. We are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that regulate products manufactured and sold by us for controlling microbial growth on humans, animals and processed foods. In the U.S., these requirements are generally administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). To date, the cost of complying with product registration requirements and FDA compliance, and similar non-U.S. 

11

laws, has not had a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 

We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations which ensure safe working conditions for our employees. In the U.S., these requirements are generally administered by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”). To date, the cost of complying with worker safety requirements and OSHA compliance, and similar non-U.S. laws, has not had a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 

Our emphasis on environmental, health and safety compliance provides us with risk reduction opportunities and cost savings through asset protection and protection of employees. We have policies in place which guide the Company in environmental, health and safety matters including training, materials conservation, communications, targets and transparency. 

Additionally, some of SEE's materials or products will be subject to a tax on certain plastics or plastic components, which are currently scheduled to go into effect in 2022 in jurisdictions such as the United States and the United Kingdom. There is no guarantee that we will be able to recover the impact of plastic taxes from our customers. The cost to establish compliance with these evolving tax on plastics or plastics components were not material in 2021.

We maintain programs to comply with the various laws, rules and regulations related to the protection of the environment that we may be subject to in the many countries/territories in which we operate. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the caption “Environmental Matters.”

Available Information

Our Internet address is www.sealedair.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through our website, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports that we file or furnish pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains these filings and they can be accessed via the Internet address https://www.sec.gov. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this Form 10-K.

12

Item 1A. Risk Factors