ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Interest Rate Risk

Our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates. Our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk is principally our variable rate debt. In July 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (the authority that regulates LIBOR) announced that it intended to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. The discontinuation date for submission and publication of rates for the remaining tenors of USD LIBOR (one-month, three-month, six-month and twelve-month) was subsequently extended by the ICE Benchmark Administration (the administrator of LIBOR) until June 30, 2023. It is unclear whether new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established such that it continues to exist after 2023. Similarly, it is not possible to predict whether LIBOR will continue to be viewed as an acceptable market benchmark, what rate or rates may become acceptable alternatives to LIBOR, or what effect these changes in views or alternatives may have on financial markets for LIBOR-linked financial instruments. While the U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, has chosen the secured overnight financing rate (“SOFR”) as the recommended risk-free reference rate for the U.S. (calculated based on repurchase agreements backed by treasury securities), we cannot currently predict the extent to which this index will gain widespread acceptance as a replacement for LIBOR. It is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms or the establishment of alternative reference rates. 

In February 2020, in connection with Amendment No. 7 to the Credit Agreement, we amended our Credit Agreement to include a provision for the determination of an alternative reference interest rate. Additionally, with respect to our derivatives portfolio, we have elected the LIBOR protocols issued by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, but the discontinuation of LIBOR may also require our derivative agreements to be amended in some way. Once the alternative interest rate has replaced LIBOR, our future interest expense could be impacted. We will continue to evaluate the risks and opportunities related to LIBOR transition.

At September 30, 2022, we had borrowings under our Term Loans Facility, which consists of three tranches of term loans, of approximately $7,298 million that were subject to interest rate risk. Borrowings under our term loans bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted LIBOR for a one-, two-, three- or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine- or twelve-month) interest period chosen by us, in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. Accordingly, the Company’s cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under our term loans. The Company's objective is to maintain an allocation of at least 75% fixed rate and 25% variable rate debt thereby limiting its exposure to changes in near-term interest rates. Interest rate swaps and caps used to hedge and offset, respectively, the variable interest rates on the credit facility are described in Note 21, “Derivatives and Hedging Activities,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes. As of September 30, 2022, approximately 85% of our total debt was fixed rate. The effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under our term loans by approximately $74 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at September 30, 2022. The weighted average interest rate on the $7,298 million of borrowings under our Term Loans Facility on September 30, 2022 was 6.3%. 

For information about the fair value of the aggregate principal amount of borrowings under our term loans and the fair value of the Notes, refer to Note 20, “Fair Value Measurements,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. 

Foreign Currency Risk

Certain of our foreign subsidiaries’ sales and results of operations are subject to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, primarily the British pound and the euro. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in which we transact business could materially adversely affect our net sales, net income and the carrying values of our assets located outside the U.S. global economic uncertainty continues to exist. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our operating results. Foreign currency forward exchange contracts provide for the purchase or sale of foreign currencies at specified future dates at specified exchange rates, and are used to offset changes in the fair value of certain assets or liabilities or forecasted cash flows resulting from transactions denominated in foreign currencies. The foreign currency forward exchange contracts entered into by the Company are described in Note 21, “Derivatives and Hedging Activities,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. 

A 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates would not have resulted in a material impact to net income for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. 

As disclosed elsewhere in this report, the future impacts of the Russia and Ukraine conflict and the COVID-19 pandemic and their residual effects, including economic uncertainty, inflationary environment and disruption within the global supply chain, labor markets and aerospace industry, on our business remain uncertain. As we cannot anticipate the ultimate duration or scope of the Russia-Ukraine war and the COVID-19 pandemic, the ultimate financial impact to our results cannot be reasonably estimated, but could be material.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA