ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Financial Risk Management 

We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we enter into a variety of foreign currency derivatives. We do not hold financial or derivative instruments for trading purposes. 

A discussion of our accounting policies for financial and derivative instruments is included in Note 2 — Basis of Presentation, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Note 10 — Derivative Financial Instruments within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Foreign Exchange Risk 

Because of the large number of countries and currencies we operate in, movements in currency exchange rates may affect our results. 

We report our operating results and financial condition in U.S. dollars. Our U.S. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in U.S. dollars. Outside the U.S., we predominantly generate revenue and expenses in the local currency with the exception of our London market operations which earn revenue in several currencies but incur expenses predominantly in Pounds sterling. 

The table below gives an approximate analysis of revenue and expenses from continuing operations by currency in 2021. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i)

These percentages exclude certain expenses for significant items which will not be settled in cash, or which we believe to be items that are not core to our current or future operations. These items include amortization of intangible assets and transaction and integration, net. 

Our principal exposures to foreign exchange risk arise from: 

•

our London market operations;  

•

intercompany lending between subsidiaries; and 

•

translation. 

London market operations 

The Company’s primary foreign exchange risks in its London market operations arise from changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and Pound sterling as its London market operations earn the majority of its revenue in U.S. dollars but incur expenses predominantly in Pounds sterling and may also hold significant foreign currency asset or liability positions on its consolidated balance sheet. In addition, the London market operations earn significant revenue in Euro and Japanese yen. 

The foreign exchange risks in our London market operations are hedged to the extent that: 

•

forecasted Pounds sterling expenses exceed Pounds sterling revenue, in which case the Company limits its exposure to this exchange rate risk by the use of forward contracts matched to a portion of the forecasted Pounds sterling outflows arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, we are also exposed to foreign exchange risk on any net Pounds sterling asset or liability position in our London market operations; and 

•

the U.K. operations also earn significant revenue in Euro and Japanese yen. The Company limits its exposure to changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and these currencies by the use of foreign exchange contracts matched to a proportion of forecast cash inflows in these specific currencies and periods.  

Intercompany lending between subsidiaries 

The Company engages in intercompany borrowing and lending between subsidiaries, primarily through our in-house banking operations which give rise to foreign exchange exposures. The Company mitigates these risks through the use of short-term foreign currency forward and swap transactions that offset the underlying exposure created when the borrower and lender have different functional currencies. These derivatives are not generally designated as hedging instruments and at December 31, 2021 we had notional amounts of $2.9 billion (denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, Pound sterling, Euro and Australian dollars), with a net asset fair value of $15 million. Such derivatives typically mature within three months.  

70 

Translation risk 

Outside our U.S. and London market operations, we predominantly earn revenue and incur expenses in the local currency. When we translate the results and net assets of these operations into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes, movements in exchange rates will affect reported results and net assets. For example, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, the reported results of our Eurozone operations in U.S. dollar terms will be lower.  

The table below provides information about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts, which are sensitive to exchange rate risk. The table summarizes the U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of each currency bought and sold forward and the weighted-average contractual exchange rates. All forward exchange contracts mature within two years. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i)

Represents the difference between the contract amount and the cash flow in U.S. dollars which would have been receivable had the foreign currency forward exchange contracts been entered into on December 31, 2021 at the forward exchange rates prevailing at that date. 

Income earned within foreign subsidiaries outside of the U.K. is generally offset by expenses in the same local currency, however the Company does have exposure to foreign exchange movements on the net income of these entities. 

Interest Rate Risk 

The Company has access to $1.5 billion under a newly-amended and restated revolving credit facility (see Note 11 — Debt within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information). As of December 31, 2021, no amount was drawn on this facility. We are also subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on our investing activities where our primary interest rate risk arises from changes in short-term interest rates in U.S. dollars, Pounds sterling and Euros. 

The table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. The Company had no outstanding floating rate-based debt at December 31, 2021. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i)

Represents the net present value of the expected cash flows discounted at current market rates of interest or quoted market rates as appropriate.     

Interest Income on Fiduciary Funds 

As a result of our operating activities, we receive cash for premiums and claims which we deposit in short-term investments denominated in U.S. dollars and other currencies. We earn interest on these funds, which is included in our consolidated financial statements as interest income. These funds are regulated in terms of access and the instruments in which they may be invested, most of which are short-term in maturity. At December 31, 2021, we held $1.9 billion of fiduciary funds invested in interest-bearing accounts.  

71 

If short-term interest rates increased or decreased by 25 basis points, interest earned on these invested fiduciary funds, and therefore our interest income recognized, would increase or decrease by approximately $5 million on an annualized basis. 

LIBOR-Related Debt Instruments  

In July 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority, the authority that regulates LIBOR, announced its intention to phase out LIBOR as a benchmark rate by the end of 2021. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee (‘ARRC’), a group of private-market participants convened by the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to help ensure a successful transition from U.S. dollar LIBOR (‘USD-LIBOR’) to a more robust reference rate, has proposed that the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (‘SOFR’) represents the best alternative to USD-LIBOR for use in derivatives and other financial contracts that are currently indexed to USD-LIBOR. ARRC has proposed a transition plan with specific steps and timelines designed to encourage the adoption of SOFR and guide the transition to SOFR from USD-LIBOR. Organizations are currently working on industry-wide and company-specific transition plans related to derivatives and cash markets exposed to USD-LIBOR. Similar efforts are underway to identify suitable replacement reference rates for LIBOR in other major currencies.  

Subsequently, on March 5, 2021, ICE Benchmark Administration (‘IBA’) stated that as a result of its not having access to input data necessary to calculate LIBOR settings on a representative basis beyond the intended cessation dates as set forth below, it would have to cease publication of all 35 LIBOR settings immediately after December 31, 2021 for all GBP-, EUR-, CHF- and JPY-LIBOR settings as well as 1-week and 2-month USD-LIBOR settings. Effective after June 30, 2023, IBA will cease publishing overnight and 1-, 3-, 6- and 12-month USD-LIBOR settings. 

Prior to October, 2021, the Company’s primary exposure was its $1.25 billion revolving credit facility which was then replaced with a new $1.5 billion revolving credit facility which contains appropriate LIBOR replacement language, as described in Note 11, Debt – Revolving Credit Facility within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additionally, the Company repaid and closed its collateralized facility during November 2021, as described in Note 11, Debt – Collateralized Facility within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On January 1, 2022, the Company made changes to its LIBOR-based intercompany notes, and following this change, none of the Company’s impacted debt instruments are currently linked to LIBOR, thus minimizing the Company’s exposure to known risks related to the transition from LIBOR to alternative rates.  

We have updated our Treasury workstation software to implement the new benchmarks and continue to monitor the LIBOR-related risks that may be inherent elsewhere in our business and are monitoring further proposals and guidance from the ARRC and other alternative-rate initiatives. While it is currently uncertain whether SOFR or another reference rate will be selected as the alternative to LIBOR, or whether other reforms will be enacted in response to the planned transition, we will make the appropriate changes when necessary. 

Credit Risk and Concentrations of Credit Risk 

Credit risk represents the loss that would be recognized at the reporting date if counterparties failed to perform as contracted. The Company currently does not anticipate non-performance by its counterparties. The Company generally does not require collateral or other security to support financial instruments with credit risk. 

Concentrations of credit risk that arise from financial instruments exist for groups of customers or counterparties when they have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions. Financial instruments on the balance sheet that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, fiduciary funds, accounts receivable and derivatives which are recorded at fair value. 

The Company maintains a policy of providing for the diversification of cash and cash equivalent investments and places such investments in an extensive number of financial institutions to limit the amount of credit risk exposure. These financial institutions are monitored on an ongoing basis for credit quality predominantly using information provided by credit agencies. 

Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to the large number of clients and markets in which the Company does business, as well as the dispersion across many geographic areas. Management does not believe that significant risk exists in connection with the Company’s concentrations of credit as of December 31, 2021. 

72 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA