PART I. 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

The discussion of the general development of our business in this Item 1 Business provides an update on the material changes to our business since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 26, 2020 (the ‘2019 Form 10-K’), which included a complete description of our business as of December 31, 2019. We incorporate herein the description of our business, including as specified in the discussion in this Item 1 below, by reference to the 2019 Form 10-K, available at https://www.sec.gov/ix?doc=/Archives/edgar/data/0001140536/000156459020006736/wltw-10k_20191231.htm#ITEM_1_BUSINESS  

The Company 

WTW is a leading global advisory, broking and solutions company that provides data-driven, insight-led solutions in the areas of people, risk and capital. Leveraging the global view and local expertise of our more than 44,000 colleagues serving more than 140 countries and markets, we help sharpen strategies, enhance organizational resilience, motivate workforces and maximize performance. We design and deliver solutions that manage risk, optimize benefits, cultivate talent and expand the power of capital to protect and strengthen institutions and individuals. Working closely with our clients, we uncover opportunities for sustainable success. 

Our clients operate on a global and local scale in a multitude of businesses and industries throughout the world and generally range in size from large, major multinational corporations to middle-market domestic and international companies. Our clients include many of the world’s leading corporations, including approximately 92% of the FTSE 100, 91% of the Fortune 1000, and 90% of the Fortune Global 500 companies. We also advise the majority of the world’s leading insurance companies. We work with major corporations, emerging growth companies, governmental agencies and not-for-profit institutions in a wide variety of industries, with many of our client relationships spanning decades. No one client accounted for a significant concentration of revenue in each of the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. We place insurance with more than 2,500 insurance carriers, none of which individually accounted for a significant concentration of the total premiums we placed on behalf of our clients in 2021, 2020 or 2019. 

Segment Reorganization 

With effect from January 1, 2022, we provide a comprehensive offering of services and solutions to clients across two business segments: Health, Wealth and Career (‘HWC’), and Risk and Broking (‘RB’). These changes were made in conjunction with changes in the WTW leadership team, including the appointment of a new chief executive officer who succeeded the prior CEO as the chief operating decision maker on that date. Prior to January 1, 2022, we operated across four segments: Human Capital and Benefits; Corporate Risk and Broking; Investment, Risk and Reinsurance; and Benefits Delivery and Administration. The HWC segment will include businesses currently aligned under the Human Capital and Benefits segment, the Benefits Delivery and Administration segment, and the Investment business, currently under the Investment, Risk and Reinsurance segment. The RB segment will include businesses currently aligned under the Corporate Risk and Broking segment, as well as the Insurance Consulting and Technology business, currently under the Investment, Risk and Reinsurance segment. Beginning with our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal year 2022, segment results will be presented on a retrospective basis to reflect the reorganization. 

Willis Re Divestiture 

On August 13, 2021, WTW entered into a definitive agreement to sell its treaty-reinsurance business (‘Willis Re’) to Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. (‘Gallagher’) for total upfront cash consideration of $3.25 billion plus an earnout payable in 2025 of up to $750 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments. The deal was subject to required regulatory approvals and clearances, as well as other customary closing conditions, and was completed on December 1, 2021 (‘Principal Closing’). Although the majority of the Willis Re businesses transferred to Gallagher at Principal Closing, the assets and liabilities of certain Willis Re businesses were not transferred to Gallagher at the time due to local territory restrictions (‘Deferred Closing’). The Deferred Closing is expected to be completed no later than the end of the second quarter of 2022, and all net earnings of the Deferred Closing businesses accumulated between the Principal Closing and Deferred Closing are payable to Gallagher at that time. We recognized a preliminary pre-tax gain of $2.3 billion upon completion of the sale.  

3 

In connection with the transaction, we reclassified the results of the Willis Re operations as discontinued operations on our consolidated statements of comprehensive income and have reclassified Willis Re assets and liabilities as held for sale on our consolidated balance sheets. Willis Re was previously included in the Investment, Risk and Reinsurance segment.  

A number of services are continuing under a cost reimbursement Transition Services Agreement (‘TSA’) in which WTW is providing Gallagher support including real estate leases, information technology, payroll, human resources and accounting. These services are expected to be provided for a period not to exceed two years.  

Termination of the Proposed Combination with Aon plc 

On March 9, 2020, WTW and Aon plc (‘Aon’) issued an announcement disclosing that the respective boards of directors of WTW and Aon had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended acquisition of WTW by Aon. Under the terms of the agreement each WTW shareholder would receive 1.08 Aon ordinary shares for each WTW ordinary share. At the time of the announcement, it was estimated that upon completion of the combination, existing Aon shareholders would own approximately 63% and existing WTW shareholders would own approximately 37% of the combined company on a fully diluted basis.  

The transaction was approved by the shareholders of both WTW and Aon during meetings of the respective shareholders held on August 26, 2020. On June 16, 2021, the U.S. Department of Justice filed suit in U.S. District Court in the District of Columbia against WTW and Aon, seeking to enjoin the proposed business combination between the two companies (among other relief). On July 26, 2021, WTW and Aon announced they had terminated the business combination agreement and that Aon had agreed to pay WTW $1 billion in connection with such termination, which was received by WTW on July 27, 2021 (the ‘Termination’ or the ‘Termination Agreement’). The $1 billion income receipt has been included in transaction and integration, net in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Under the Termination Agreement, WTW and Aon on behalf of themselves and certain other related and affiliated parties, each agreed to release the other from all claims and actions arising out of or related to the business combination agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, subject to certain exceptions. 

Available Information 

The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ‘SEC’). The SEC maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information that issuers (including WTW) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s website is www.sec.gov. 

The Company makes available, free of charge through our website, www.wtwco.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our proxy statement, current reports on Form 8-K and Forms 3, 4, and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, as well as any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ‘Exchange Act’) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Unless specifically incorporated by reference, information on our website is not a part of this Form 10-K. 

The Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit and Risk Committee Charter, Operational Transformation Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, and Corporate Governance & Nominating Committee Charter are available on our website, www.wtwco.com, in the Investor Relations section, or upon request. Requests for copies of these documents should be directed in writing to the Company Secretary c/o Office of General Counsel, Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company, Brookfield Place, 200 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10281. 

General Information 

WTW offers its clients a broad range of services and solutions to help them to identify and control their risks, and to enhance business performance by improving their ability to attract, retain and engage a talented workforce. Our risk control services range from strategic risk consulting (including providing actuarial analysis), to a variety of due diligence services, to the provision of practical on-site risk control services (such as health and safety or property loss control consulting), as well as analytical and advisory services (such as hazard modeling and climate risk quantification). We assist clients in planning how to manage incidents or crises when they occur. These services include contingency planning, security audits and product tampering plans. We help our clients enhance their business performance by delivering consulting services, technology and solutions that help them anticipate, identify and capitalize on emerging opportunities in human capital management, as well as offer investment advice to help them develop disciplined and efficient strategies to meet their investment goals. 

As an insurance broker, we act as an intermediary between our clients and insurance carriers by advising our clients on their risk management requirements, helping them to determine the best means of managing risk and negotiating and placing insurance with insurance carriers through our global distribution network. We operate a private Medicare exchange in the U.S. Through this exchange and those for active employees, we help our clients move to a more sustainable economic model by capping and controlling the costs associated with healthcare benefits. 

4 

We are not an insurance company, and therefore we do not underwrite insurable risks for our own account. 

We derive the majority of our revenue from either commissions or fees for brokerage or consulting services. We do not determine the insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Commission levels generally follow the same trend as premium levels as they are derived from a percentage of the premiums paid by the insureds. Fluctuations in these premiums charged by the insurance carriers can therefore have a direct and potentially material impact on our results of operations. Our fees for consulting services are spread across a variety of complementary businesses that generally remain steady during times of uncertainty. We have some businesses, such as our health and benefits and administration businesses, which can be counter cyclical during the early period of a significant economic change. 

Impact of COVID-19 and Related Economic Impacts 

Over the last two years, the COVID-19 pandemic generally did not have a material adverse impact on our overall financial results. Initially, the pandemic had a negative impact on our revenue growth, primarily in our businesses that are discretionary in nature, however we later saw an increased demand for these services, which improved revenue growth beginning in the second quarter of 2021. There continues to be increased demand for our services, particularly those services that address the various challenges in the global labor markets and disruptions to the supply chain. While we believe we have adapted to the unique challenges posed by the pandemic surrounding how and where we do our work, we are also impacted by workforce availability, and this may make it difficult for us to meet the demand from our clients. COVID-19 also poses a range of other risks and uncertainties for our business. For information regarding the impact of COVID-19 on our business and measures we have taken in response, see Item 7 ‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Risks and Uncertainties of the COVID-19 Pandemic and the Related Economic Environment’ and Item 1A ‘Risk Factors-Strategic, Operational and Technology Risks-We have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and may be substantially and negatively impacted by it in the future.’ 

Business Strategy  

The Company is in the business of people, risk and capital. We believe that a unified approach to these areas can be a path to growth for organizations around the world. In that spirit, we bring the collective power of our colleagues together – as ‘One WTW’ – to serve and support our clients. 

We operate in attractive markets – both growing and mature – with a diversified platform across geographies, industries, segments and lines of business.  

Our vision is to be the best advisory, broking and solutions company for the benefit of all our stakeholders – creating a competitive advantage and delivering sustainable, profitable growth. 

We believe we can achieve this through executing on our three strategic priorities – grow, simplify and transform: 

•

Grow at or above market in priority areas: Focus on core opportunities with the highest growth and return; innovate and accelerate our offerings through a dynamic, yet disciplined, approach; bring targeted solutions to clients reflecting more connected offerings; and increase scale to fill gaps in capabilities through inorganic expansion. 

•

Simplify the business to increase agility and effectiveness: Implement the Company’s streamlined structure of two business segments (Health, Wealth and Career and Risk and Broking; see ‘Segment Reorganization’ within this Item 1 for further information) and three geographies (Europe, International and North America); develop a globally consistent client management model and enhance operations to improve sales and retention outcomes; manage our portfolio of businesses intentionally to drive optimal value; and increase speed of execution through agile decision-making processes. 

•

Transform operations to drive savings while enhancing our client and colleague experiences: Maximize global platforms to be as common as possible and as distinct as necessary; right-shore operations to capitalize on our scale; rationalize real estate and build new ways of working; and modernize technology to enhance the digital experience.  

We care as much about how we work as we do about the impact that we make. This means commitment to a shared purpose and values, a framework that guides how we run our business and serve clients. 

Through these strategies we aim to accelerate revenue, margin improvement, cash flow, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (‘EBITDA’), and earnings growth, and to generate compelling returns for investors, by delivering tangible growth in revenue. 

For more information about risks to our strategic plans, see Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. 

5 

Principal Services  

During the year ended December 31, 2021, we managed our business across four integrated reportable operating segments: Human Capital and Benefits; Corporate Risk and Broking; Investment, Risk and Reinsurance; and Benefits Delivery and Administration. Below are the percentages of revenue generated by each segment for each of the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. These percentages exclude revenue that has been classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income.  

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Human Capital and Benefits 

For a description of our Human Capital and Benefits (‘HCB’) segment, see the link above to the 2019 Form 10-K, and see ‘Human Capital and Benefits’ within Part I, Item 1 Business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 26, 2020. There have been no material updates to the description of our HCB segment since the 2019 Form 10-K other than the updated information provided below. 

Talent & Rewards — Our Talent & Rewards (‘T&R’) business provides advice, data, software and products to address clients’ total rewards and talent issues. T&R has operations across the globe, including centralized software development and analytics teams that support the efficient delivery of services to clients. 

Within our Rewards line of business, we address executive compensation and broad-based rewards. We advise our clients’ management and boards of directors on all aspects of executive pay programs, including base pay, annual bonuses, long-term incentives, perquisites and other benefits. Our focus is on aligning pay plans with an organization’s business strategy and driving desired performance. Our solutions incorporate market benchmarking data and software to support compensation administration. 

Our Talent line of business focuses on the employee experience with solutions including employee insight and listening tools, talent assessment tools and services, communication and change management services and HR software to help companies administer and manage their talent management programs and analyze talent trends. 

Revenue for the T&R business is partly seasonal in nature, with a meaningful amount of heightened activity in the second half of the calendar year during the annual compensation, benefits and survey cycles. While T&R enjoys long-term relationships with many clients, work in several practices is often project-based and can be sensitive to economic changes. The business benefits from regulatory changes affecting our clients that require strategic advice, program changes and communication. Additional areas of growth for T&R include the increasing focus on Environmental, Social, and Governance as a component of executive and board pay, the redefinition of jobs and career paths as technology disaggregates work, and the recalibration of pay and the employee experience amidst shifting labor markets. 

Corporate Risk and Broking  

The WTW Corporate Risk and Broking (‘CRB’) segment provides a broad range of risk advice, insurance brokerage and consulting services to clients worldwide ranging from small businesses to multinational corporations, and places more than $25 billion of premiums into the insurance markets on an annual basis. The segment delivers integrated global solutions tailored to client needs and underpinned by data and analytics through a balanced matrix of global lines of business across all of the Company’s regions. The global lines of business as of December 31, 2021 included: 

Property and Casualty — Property and Casualty provides property and liability insurance brokerage services across a wide range of industries and segments including real estate, healthcare and retail. We also arrange insurance products and services for our affinity client partners to offer to their customers, employees, or members alongside, or in addition to, their principal business offerings.  

6 

Aerospace — Aerospace provides specialist expertise to the aerospace and space industries. Our aerospace business provides insurance broking, risk management services, contractual and technical advisory expertise to aerospace clients worldwide, including the world’s leading airlines, aircraft manufacturers, air cargo handlers and other airport and general aviation companies. The specialist InSpace team is also prominent in providing insurance and risk management services to the space industry.  

Construction — Our Construction business provides services that include insurance broking, claims, loss control and specialized risk advice for a wide range of construction projects and activities. Clients include contractors, project owners, public entities, project managers, consultants and financiers, among others. 

Facultative — Facultative capabilities exist for each of CRB’s offerings to serve as a broker or intermediary for insurance companies seeking to arrange reinsurance solutions across various classes of risk for their clients, some of which may also be broking clients of WTW.  

Financial, Executive and Professional Risks (‘FINEX’) — FINEX encompasses all financial and executive risks, delivering client solutions that range from management and professional liability, employment practices liability, crime, cyber and M&A-related insurances to risk consulting and advisory services. Specialist teams provide risk consulting and risk transfer solutions to a broad spectrum of clients across a multitude of industries, as well as the financial and professional service sectors. 

Financial Solutions — Financial Solutions provides insurance broking services and specialized risk advice related to credit, surety, terrorism and political risk to clients that range from corporate to professional services firms and financial institutions including, but not limited to, banks, export credit agencies, multilaterals/development finance institutions, private equity funds and special purpose vehicles. 

Marine — Marine provides specialist expertise to the maritime and logistics industries. Our Marine business provides insurance broking services related to hull and machinery, cargo, protection and indemnity, fine art and general marine liabilities, among others. Our Marine clients include, but are not limited to, ship owners and operators, shipbuilders, logistics operations, port authorities, traders, shippers, exhibitors and secure transport companies. 

Natural Resources — Our Natural Resources practice encompasses the oil, gas and chemicals, mining and metals, power and utilities and renewable energy sectors. It provides sector-specific risk transfer solutions and insights, which include insurance broking, risk engineering, contractual reviews, wording analysis and claims management. 

Investment, Risk and Reinsurance  

For a description of our Investment, Risk and Reinsurance (‘IRR’) segment, see the link above to the 2019 Form 10-K, and see ‘Investment, Risk and Reinsurance’ within Part I, Item 1 Business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 26, 2020. There have been no material updates to the description of our IRR segment since the 2019 Form 10-K other than the updated information provided below. 

During 2021 and 2020, WTW completed divestitures of certain businesses within its IRR segment, including its Willis Re business. See Note 3 — Acquisitions and Divestitures within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.  

Benefits Delivery and Administration  

For a description of our Benefits Delivery and Administration (‘BDA’) segment, see the link above to the 2019 Form 10-K, and see ‘Benefits Delivery and Administration’ within Part I, Item 1 Business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 26, 2020. There have been no material updates to the description of our BDA segment since the 2019 Form 10-K. 

Human Capital  

Colleague experience – Our colleague experience is an important differentiating factor for WTW. It is designed to provide interesting and meaningful work, development and recognition opportunities, foster an inclusive environment where everyone can be their authentic selves, innovate and lead in the market, provide the tools and flexibility colleagues need in how and where they do their work, help colleagues feel connected to their work and why they do it, make our processes efficient, have a continuous improvement mindset and leverage best practices, ensure managers actively engage with colleagues, assess and reward colleagues, and ensure colleagues are heard and valued. 

Our values, new vision and refreshed purpose, including our new brand in 2022, set the tone for what to expect at WTW. And, our ‘grow, simplify and transform’ strategic priorities are supporting our focus on how to continually support and improve, as appropriate, our colleague experience. We evaluate process efficiencies, system upgrades and rewards offerings as well as the tradeoffs that may  

7 

be required. We further consider how we can work with flexibility in an on-going hybrid model, and fuel innovation, among other things, to continually attract, engage and retain the most accomplished and aspiring talent. 

Headcount – Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate the most accomplished and aspiring talent in the industry. The number of employees by segment for the year ended December 31, 2021 is approximated below: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i)

Approximately 1,400 colleagues provide region and account management and operational support for the HCB and CRB segments and in prior year were allocated to those segments. These colleagues have been included in Corporate and Other in 2021, consistent with our treatment of other shared resources.  

The number of employees by geography as of the year ended December 31, 2021 is approximated below: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Voluntary turnover excluding seasonal employees (rolling 12-month attrition) was 15.2% in 2021 compared to 8.7% in 2020. The turnover rate for 2020 was abnormally low; pre-Covid-19 attrition typically averaged around 12.0%. The increase in attrition in 2021 compared to 2020 and 2019 was attributable, in large part, to both uncertainty associated with the planned combination with Aon, which was terminated in July, and, to a lesser extent, generally increased movement in global talent markets. The prolonged period of uncertainty introduced by the pending transaction, and continuing in the period following the termination of that transaction, drove attrition higher, particularly in certain business units where job insecurity or other uncertainty was most elevated. For example, attrition in CRB North America and Europe was elevated because the perceived risk of business divestiture needed to secure regulatory approval was high. Additionally, in Corporate where deal-related synergy savings were expected to be most concentrated, colleagues sought employment elsewhere in order to avoid role redundancy. 

Hiring – Hiring in 2021 increased significantly partly due to hiring in 2020 that was deferred due to the pandemic and business conditions and partly due to increased demand for our services. Hiring and internal movement for 2021, summarized below, excludes seasonal colleagues in Tranzact and Individual Marketplace as the volumes are material and fluctuate significantly:  

•

Hires increased 73.5% over 2020 to 7,284. Hiring growth was strong across all segments and geographies. At year-end, there were approximately 2,800 open positions, which is higher than historic rates but reflective of the sharp increase in new positions opened in the second half of the year. 

•

During 2021, 13.9% of open positions were filled with internal candidates compared to 22.4% in 2020, the percentage drop being attributable to the significantly higher number of open positions in 2021. In addition, promotions (changes in levels) and direct appointments into new roles brought additional opportunities for career growth and advancement. 

•

Rehires represented 13.0% of total hires in 2021. 

Inclusion and Diversity (‘I&D’) – We believe that when our individual talents are combined, we unlock our collective potential. We further believe that we are better together because each of us is different. WTW aims to ensure that our values and I&D commitments are reflected in every interaction. To support this, we’re focusing on three key areas: 

•

Attract and hire to grow our talent pipeline of colleagues from underrepresented communities 

•

Develop and promote to increase the overall diversity in business leadership 

•

Promote an inclusive culture that respects each other’s differences and celebrates what’s unique about each of us 

8 

A key underlying theme of these priorities is a sharpened focus on our female talent and an aspirational goal to increase gender balance in leadership levels across the Company. This focus directly supports the statement we made when we joined the Paradigm for Parity® (‘P4P’) coalition in 2016. P4P is committed to reaching gender parity in leadership by 2030.  

At December 31, 2021, we had the following global female representation, and in the U.S. where we have the most complete data, we had the following ethnic and racial diversity representation: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i)

Other non-white includes American Indian, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, and two or more races. 

(ii)

Senior leadership represents about 5% of our colleagues and includes those with titles of Managing and Senior Directors. 

As of January 1, 2022, three new independent directors joined our board of directors, with a fourth new independent director to join on April 1, 2022. This creates a further diverse board (as self-identified), of which, as of April 1, 50% will be female, including the Compensation Committee Chair. Our new board, as of that date, will also have representation from the LGBT+ community and the Black and Asian communities, and also has members with non-U.S. citizenship, including the Audit and Risk Committee Chair. 

Our executive officers have I&D objectives as part of their individual performance component, comprising a portion of their short-term incentive awards. Each year our leaders cascade I&D objectives throughout the organization, and we continue to reinforce objective and fair processes that mitigate bias in all of our talent programs and processes. Examples of key activities include: 

•

Our global I&D council, sponsored by our CEO and by our CHRO, sets the standard for our I&D initiatives globally. It is driven by regional councils that provide local perspectives and help to translate our global priorities into actions within each region. 

•

Our inclusion networks are designed to engage our talent and better connect us to each other, our clients and the communities in which we work and live. Current inclusion networks include: Gender Equity, LGBT+, Multicultural, Workability (Asia, North America, the U.K.) and Young Professionals (Asia, the U.K., Western Europe). 

Total rewards – We invest significant resources in our most important asset, our colleagues. We offer market competitive rewards packages comprising of a mix of base salary and incentives aligned to our pay-for-performance philosophy plus benefits that support health and wellbeing as well as the ability to plan for the future. 

Our total rewards programs align to our commitment to colleague health and wellbeing, ensuring our people are protected in the event of accident or illness, have sufficient paid time off and can accumulate capital for personal needs and retirement. We also understand the need for flexibility in the modern workplace and provide modified work arrangements and schedules where practical (e.g., flex time, part-time, work-from-home) that enable and support colleagues to stay focused on their clients and business needs and balance their personal commitments. 

COVID-19 response – In 2021, we continued to support the health and safety of colleagues by: 

•

Monitoring and adapting both in-office operations and return-to-office approaches for colleagues across our more than 140 countries, prioritizing colleague health and safety as well as client service continuity while complying with all applicable local regulations. 

•

Offering remote working solutions that address wellbeing, potential travel, at-home office equipment provisioning, collaboration tools and manager resources while also facilitating flexible work-life arrangements and support for home care requirements. 

•

Monitoring colleague feedback on our response to the pandemic. Our November 2021 all-colleague pulse survey showed strong support for our efforts with over 90% of respondents feeling connected to their teams in an inclusive environment and able to effectively work in a hybrid work model. 

9 

•

Rethinking how colleagues work (both independently and collaboratively, now and in the future), focusing on the evolving role our offices play. The outcome of this work has been the development of a new work styles model that supports colleagues who are office-based, home-based or a hybrid of the two. For our hybrid colleagues, we are extending a greater level of autonomy over where and how they do their work. Our belief is that colleagues know their work and the people, tools and environment they need to be successful. Therefore, to the extent that role, geography and/or any regulations allow, how and where a colleague works will be determined by the work itself, not arbitrary rules to simply be in the office. 

The failure to successfully attract and retain qualified personnel could materially adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. For more information see Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. 

Competition 

For a description of our competition, see the link above to the 2019 Form 10-K, and see ‘Competition’ within Part I, Item 1 Business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 26, 2020. 

Regulation  

Our business activities are subject to legal requirements and governmental and quasi-governmental regulatory supervision in all countries in which we operate. Also, such regulations may require individual or company licensing to conduct our business activities. While these requirements may vary from location to location, they are generally designed to protect our clients by establishing minimum standards of conduct and practice, particularly regarding the provision of advice and product information, as well as financial criteria. We are also subject to data privacy regulations in many countries. Our most significant regulatory regions are described below: 

United States 

Our activities in connection with insurance brokerage services within the U.S. are subject to regulation and supervision by state authorities. Although the scope of regulation and form of supervision may vary from state to state, insurance laws in the United States are often complex and generally grant broad discretion to supervisory authorities in adopting regulations and supervising regulated activities. That supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and the regulation of the handling and investment of client funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Our continuing ability to provide insurance brokerage in the states in which we currently operate is dependent upon our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the regulatory authorities in each of these states. Additionally, some of our private exchange activities, including our TRANZACT business which focuses on direct-to-consumer Medicare policy sales, are overseen by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, which is part of the Department of Health and Human Services. Furthermore, certain of our activities are subject to regulation under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (‘HIPAA’), which is enforced by the Office for Civil Rights within the Department of Health and Human Services. As we implement and expand our direct-to-consumer sales and marketing solutions through our Benefits Delivery and Administration business, we are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations that prescribe when and how we may market to consumers (including, without limitation, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and other telemarketing laws and the Medicare Communications and Marketing Guidelines issued by the Center for Medicare Services). 

Certain of our activities are governed by other regulatory bodies, such as investment and securities licensing authorities. Our activities in connection with investment services within the United States are subject to regulation and supervision at both the federal and state levels. At the federal level, certain of our operating subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC through the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Investment Advisers’ Act of 1940 and by the Department of Labor through the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or ERISA. In connection with the SEC regulations, we are required to file certain reports, and are subject to various marketing restrictions, among other requirements. In connection with ERISA regulations, we are limited in the actions we can take for plans for which we serve as fiduciaries, among other matters. Our U.S. investment activities are also subject to certain state regulatory schemes, and some activities also are subject to regulation by the Commodities and Futures Trading Commission under the Commodities Exchange Act. 

Our Willis Re Securities business, which was sold to Gallagher in December 2021, operated through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Willis Securities, Inc., a U.S.-registered broker-dealer and member of FINRA/SIPC, primarily in connection with advising on alternative risk financing transactions and investment banking services. 

Our activities in connection with Third Party Administrator (‘TPA’) services in the United States are also subject to regulation and supervision by many state authorities. Licensing requirements and supervision vary from state to state. As with insurance brokerage services, our continuing ability to provide these services in states that regulate our activities is dependent upon our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these states. 

10 

United Kingdom 

In the U.K., our business is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’). 

The FCA has a sole strategic objective: to ensure that the relevant markets function well. Its operational objectives are to secure an appropriate degree of protection for consumers, to protect and enhance the integrity of the U.K. financial system, and to promote effective competition in the interests of consumers. The FCA has a wide range of rule-making, investigatory and enforcement powers (including the power to censure and fine) and conducts monitoring visits to assess our compliance with regulatory requirements. In addition, the FCA extended the Senior Managers and Certification Regime (‘SMCR’) which became effective on December 9, 2019 in relation to our U.K. FCA-regulated businesses. The SMCR is designed to drive improvements in culture and governance within financial services firms and to deter misconduct by increasing individual accountability to the FCA. WTW is also subject to the UK General Data Protection Regulation (‘UK GDPR’) subsequent to Brexit. 

Brexit will generally cause an increase in regulations that are specific to the U.K. and will result in differences from the regulatory requirements of the E.U. See Item 1A Risk Factors, for a description of Brexit-related risks to the Company. 

Furthermore, as a result of Brexit, the WTW Brexit broking solution (the U.K. Branch of Willis Towers Watson SA/NV) will be required to seek authorization from the FCA as a third country branch. This application for full authorization is due for submission by March 31, 2022 and, once approved by the FCA, will result in an increase in FCA supervision in the future with additional requirements for the branch in key areas such as SMCR. 

European Union 

In 2005, the European Union Insurance Mediation Directive introduced rules to enable insurance and reinsurance intermediaries to operate and provide services within each member state of the E.U. on a basis consistent with the E.U. single market and customer protection aims. Each E.U. member state in which we operate is required to ensure that the insurance and reinsurance intermediaries resident in their country are registered with a statutory body in that country and that each intermediary meets professional requirements in relation to their competence, good repute, professional indemnity cover and financial capacity. The E.U. issued a new Insurance Distribution Directive that expands the 2005 directive, and all E.U. member states in which we operate were required to enact the directive and adopt local country laws by October 1, 2018. 

The ‘Whistleblower Protection Directive’, on the protection of persons who report breaches of E.U. law, entered into force on December 16, 2019 (Directive 2019/1937). This Directive includes reporting procedures for these persons. The new rules will require the creation of safe channels for reporting both within an organization - private or public - and to public authorities. They will also provide protection to whistleblowers against retaliation. 

In addition, our Willis Re Securities business, which was sold to Gallagher in December 2021, provided advice on securities or investments in the European Union and Australia through our U.K. wholly-owned subsidiary, Willis Towers Watson Securities Europe Limited, which is authorized and regulated by the FCA. 

WTW is also subject to the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (‘GDPR’), which became effective in May 2018. The GDPR is a comprehensive regime that significantly increases our responsibilities when handling personal data, including, without limitation, requiring us to conduct privacy impact assessments, restricting the transmission of data and requiring public disclosure of significant data breaches. 

Other 

Certain of our entities that undertake pension scheme management are subject to MiFID (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive) and MiFIR (the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation). In addition, revisions to MiFID (‘MiFID II’) took effect in January 2018. These revisions are aimed at strengthening investor protection and improving the function of financial markets. MiFID II imposes a variety of requirements that include, among others, rules relating to product governance and independent investment advice, responsibility of management bodies, inducements, information and reporting to clients, cross-selling, remuneration of staff, and best execution of trades for clients. Further, some of our entities are also authorized and regulated by certain financial services authorities in countries such as Sweden, Ireland, the Netherlands and the U.K. 

All companies carrying on similar activities in a given jurisdiction are subject to regulations which are not dissimilar to the requirements for our operations in the U.S. and U.K. We do not consider these regulatory requirements as adversely affecting our competitive position. 

Across most jurisdictions we are subject to various data privacy laws and regulations that apply to health, medical, financial and other types of personal information belonging to our clients, their employees and third parties, as well as our own employees. For example, China is a jurisdiction where a comprehensive Personal Information Protection Law (‘PIPL’) has recently been enacted, and our local entity is subject to this regulation. 

11 

Across many jurisdictions we are subject to various financial crime laws and regulations through our activities, activities of associated persons, the products and services we provide and our business and client relationships. Such laws and regulations relate to, among other areas, sanctions and export control, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, anti-money-laundering and counter-terrorist financing. 

Our failure, or that of our employees, to satisfy the regulatory compliance requirements or the legal requirements governing our activities, can result in disciplinary action, fines, reputational damage and financial harm. 

See Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors for an analysis of how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation, including Brexit, in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business.  

Information about Executive Officers of the Registrant  

The executive officers of the Company as of February 24, 2022 were as follows:  

Kristy D. Banas (age 50) - Ms. Banas has served as Chief Human Resources Officer since August 16, 2021. Prior to that, she served as the Senior Director, Global Talent Advisor for Human Capital & Benefits from March 2019 to August 2021. She also served as Senior Director and Head of Global Total Rewards, HR Integration and the HR Business Office from November 2016 to March 2019. From January 2016 to November 2016, Ms. Banas served as Senior Director and Global HR Leader, WTW Operations and Technology. From July 2011 to January 2016, Ms. Banas served as Senior Vice President, Global HR Director for WTW Corporate Functions, and was the Executive HR Sponsor for Global Operations Improvement. Ms. Banas was Vice President and Global HR Partner with XL Capital/ XL Global Services / XL Insurance from November 2001 to June 2011. Ms. Banas has a BS in Business Management from Fairfield University and a partial MS in Human Resource Management from the University of Connecticut. 

Anne D. Bodnar (age 65) - Ms. Bodnar has served as Chief Administrative Officer at WTW since May 31, 2019 and also served as Chief Human Resources Officer from January 4, 2016 through August 16, 2021. Previously, Ms. Bodnar served on Towers Watson’s Management Committee since January 2015 and as Towers Watson’s Chief Administrative Officer since January 1, 2010. Ms. Bodnar previously served as Managing Director of HR at Towers Perrin beginning in 2001. From 1995 to 2000, Ms. Bodnar led Towers Perrin’s recruiting and learning and development efforts. Prior to that, she was a strategy consultant in Towers Perrin’s Human Capital business. Earlier in her career, Ms. Bodnar held several operational and strategic planning roles at what is now JPMorgan Chase. Ms. Bodnar graduated cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa from Smith College and has an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School. 

Matthew S. Furman (age 52) - Mr. Furman has served as General Counsel at WTW since January 4, 2016. Previously, Mr. Furman served as Executive Vice President and Group General Counsel at Willis Group Holdings, where he was a member of the Operating Committee since April 2015. From 2007 until March 2015, Mr. Furman was Senior Vice President, Group General Counsel-Corporate and Governance, and Corporate Secretary for The Travelers Companies, Inc. From 2000 until 2007, Mr. Furman was an attorney at Goldman, Sachs & Co. in New York, where he was Vice President and Associate General Counsel in the finance and corporate legal group. Prior to that, he was in private practice, with almost six years’ experience at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett in New York. Mr. Furman also serves as a Trustee of the Jewish Theological Seminary and a Director of the Legal Aid Society. He previously served as a member of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s Investor Advisory Committee, where he served on the Executive Committee and chaired the Market Structure Subcommittee. He holds a bachelor’s degree magna cum laude from Brown University and a law degree magna cum laude from Harvard Law School. 

Adam L. Garrard (age 56) - Mr. Garrard has served as Head of Corporate Risk and Broking, and International since August 14, 2019. Prior to that, he served as Head of International at WTW since January 4, 2016. Previously, Mr. Garrard served as Chief Executive Officer for Willis Group Holdings in Asia since September 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Garrard served as Chief Executive Officer for Willis in Europe since January 2009, Chief Executive Officer for Willis in Australasia since May 2005 and Chief Executive Officer for Asia since January 2002. Mr. Garrard has resided in Singapore, Shanghai, Sydney and London while undertaking his Chief Executive Officer roles. After graduating from De Montfort University with a bachelor’s degree in Business Administration in 1992, Mr. Garrard joined SBJ Stephenson Insurance Brokers before joining Willis in 1994. 

Julie J. Gebauer (age 60) - Ms. Gebauer has served as Head of Health, Wealth and Career at WTW since January 1, 2022. Previously, Ms. Gebauer served as Head of Human Capital & Benefits at WTW since January 4, 2016 and, prior to that, as Managing Director of Towers Watson’s Talent and Rewards business segment since January 1, 2010. Beginning in 2002, Ms. Gebauer served as a Managing Director of Towers Perrin and led Towers Perrin’s global Workforce Effectiveness practice and the global Towers Perrin-International Survey Research Corporation line of business. Ms. Gebauer was a member of Towers Perrin’s Board of Directors from 2003 through 2006. She joined Towers Perrin in 1986 as a consultant and held several leadership positions at Towers Perrin, serving as the Managing Principal for the New York office from 1999 to 2001 and the U.S. East Region Leader for the Human Capital Group from 2002 to 2006. Ms. Gebauer is a Fellow of the Society of Actuaries. Ms. Gebauer graduated Phi Beta Kappa and with high distinction from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln with a bachelor’s degree in mathematics and was designated a Chancellor’s Scholar. 

12 

Carl A. Hess (age 60) - Mr. Hess has served as Chief Executive Officer at WTW since January 1, 2022 and, prior to that, served as President since August 16, 2021. Mr. Hess was formerly Head of Investment, Risk and Reinsurance from October 27, 2016 to August 16, 2021. Previously, Mr. Hess served as the Co-Head of North America at WTW since January 4, 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Hess served as Managing Director, The Americas of Towers Watson since February 1, 2014, and before that, he served as the Managing Director of Towers Watson’s Investment business since January 1, 2010. Before his service at Towers Watson, Mr. Hess worked in a variety of roles for over 20 years at Watson Wyatt, lastly as Global Practice Director of Watson Wyatt’s Investment business. Mr. Hess is a Fellow of the Society of Actuaries and the Conference of Consulting Actuaries and a Chartered Enterprise Risk Analyst. He has a bachelor’s degree cum laude in logic and language from Yale University.  

Andrew J. Krasner (age 46) - Mr. Krasner has served as Chief Financial Officer at WTW since September 7, 2021. From February 2021 to August 2021, Mr. Krasner served as Chief Financial Officer for Assured Partners. From June 2018 to January 2021, Mr. Krasner was Global Treasurer and Head of M&A of WTW, and from 2012 to June 2018, was Head of M&A, responsible for the Company’s Treasury operations and M&A, joint venture, divestiture, and strategic investment activity. Mr. Krasner started with Legacy Willis in June 2009 as Senior Vice President, working on the client side with Willis Capital Markets & Advisory between June 2009 to June 2012. Prior to joining WTW, Mr. Krasner was a Principal with Banc of America Securities from October 2003 to June 2009, an Associate with Deutsche Bank from July 2002 to October 2003 and a Senior Associate with PricewaterhouseCoopers from August 1997 to August 2000. Mr. Krasner has a B.S. degree in applied economics and business management and an M.B.A. with distinction from Cornell University. He is also a Certified Public Accountant. 

Anne Pullum (age 39) - Ms. Pullum has served as Head of Europe at WTW since August 30, 2021 and, prior to that, as Head of Western Europe from May 31, 2019 to August 30, 2021. Previously, she served as the Chief Administrative Officer and Head of Strategy and Innovation since October 27, 2016. Beginning on January 4, 2016, Ms. Pullum served as WTW’s Head of Strategy, where she has played a key role in determining the Company’s strategy and worked across all business segments and functional areas. Previously, Ms. Pullum served as the Head of Strategy for Willis Group since May 2014. Before joining Willis, Ms. Pullum worked at McKinsey & Company, where she served financial services and natural resource clients since October 2010. Prior to that, Ms. Pullum conducted economic research at Greenspan Associates in Washington, D.C. and served as an analyst in the Goldman Sachs Equities Division in London. Ms. Pullum holds an M.B.A. from INSEAD and a bachelor’s degree in international economics from Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. 

Imran Qureshi (age 51) - Mr. Qureshi has served as Head of North America at WTW since August 30, 2021. Prior to that, he served as the Co-Leader, U.S. from February 2017 to August 30, 2021. He also chaired the North American Inclusion & Diversity Council during this time. He served as Region Leader, U.S. Midwest from February 2017 to October 2019, and was Market Leader, Greater Chicago and Wisconsin from February 2016 to February 2017. Mr. Qureshi was Managing Consultant of the Chicago office from January 2013 to January 2016, and has been with WTW in other roles since March 1999. Mr. Qureshi is currently a board director at The Executives' Club of Chicago. Previously, he was the board chair of the Human Resources Management Association of Chicago, and he served on the M&A Faculty of WorldatWork where he taught M&A and taught the International Benefits Course for the International Foundation of Employee Benefit Plans. In 2004, Mr. Qureshi was honored by Business Insurance magazine as one of “40 Under 40 People to Watch” in the commercial insurance and risk/benefits management services industries. He also has lectured on governance and globalization at The Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University and The University of Chicago Booth School of Business. Mr. Qureshi holds a bachelor’s degree in pure mathematics and statistics with honors from the University of Manchester in the U.K. and has an actuarial background. 

Gene H. Wickes (age 69) - Mr. Wickes has served as the Head of Benefits Delivery and Administration at WTW since April 1, 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Wickes served as an Executive Sponsor of the combined WTW Merger integration team since January 4, 2016. Previously, he served as the Managing Director of the Benefits business segment of Towers Watson from January 1, 2010 until the closing of the WTW merger. Prior to that, he served as the Global Director of the Benefits practice of Watson Wyatt beginning in 2005 and as a member of Watson Wyatt’s Board of Directors from 2002 to 2007. Mr. Wickes was Watson Wyatt’s Global Retirement Practice Director in 2004 and the U.S. West Division’s Retirement Practice Leader from 1997 to 2004. Mr. Wickes joined Watson Wyatt in 1996 as a senior consultant and consulting actuary. Prior to joining Watson Wyatt, he spent 18 years with Towers Perrin, where he assisted organizations with welfare, retirement, and executive benefit issues. Mr. Wickes is a Fellow of the Society of Actuaries and a member of the Conference of Consulting Actuaries, and he has a B.S. in mathematics and economics, an M.S. in mathematics and an M.S. in economics, all from Brigham Young University. 

13 

Board of Directors  

A list of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company and their principal occupations is provided below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

14 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS