Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices.

Interest Rate Risks

One of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. We attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings, supplemented by hedging activities as believed by us to be appropriate. We cannot assure you that these risk management strategies will have the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. 

The following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments as of December 31, 2021, of our expected long-term indebtedness and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. However, we cannot predict the LIBOR or HIBOR rates that will be in effect in the future. Actual rates will vary. Additionally, the potential effect that the proposed LIBOR phaseout could have on our business and financial condition cannot yet be determined (see Item 1A—"Risk Factors," Risks Related to our Indebtedness for further discussion). The one-month LIBOR and HIBOR rates as of December 31, 2021 of 0.10% and 0.15%, respectively, were used for all variable rate calculations in the table below.

55 
The information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents as applicable.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest Rate Sensitivity

As of December 31, 2021, approximately 77.0% of our long-term debt was based on fixed rates. Based on our borrowings as of December 31, 2021, an assumed 100 basis point change in the variable rates would cause our annual interest expense to change by $22.4 million.

In order to mitigate exposure to interest rate fluctuations on the Retail Term Loan, the Company entered into a five year interest rate collar with a notional value of $615.0 million. The interest rate collar establishes a range whereby the Company will pay the counterparty if one-month LIBOR falls below the established floor rate of 1.00%, and the counterparty will pay the Company if one-month LIBOR exceeds the ceiling rate of 3.75%.

Foreign Currency Risks

The currency delineated in Wynn Macau SA's concession agreement with the government of Macau is the Macau pataca. The Macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the Hong Kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in Macau. The Hong Kong dollar is linked to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. However, the exchange linkages of the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca, and the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in Chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments.

If the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca are not linked to the U.S. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. We also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level.

We expect most of the revenues and expenses for any casino that we operate in Macau will be denominated in Hong Kong dollars or Macau patacas; however, a significant portion of our Wynn Macau, Limited and Wynn Macau SA debt is denominated in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rates resulting in weakening of the Macau pataca or the Hong Kong dollar in relation to the U.S. dollar could have materially adverse effects on our results, financial condition, and ability to service debt. Based on our balances as of December 31, 2021, an assumed 1% change in the U.S. dollar/Hong Kong dollar exchange rate would cause a foreign currency transaction gain/loss of $38.7 million.

56 
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data