Earnings Release dated January 15, 2015 issued by the Company   

Exhibit 99.1  

 Tom Wojcik, Investor Relations      Brian Beades, Media Relations 

212.810.8127       

212.810.5596  

BlackRock Reports Full Year 2014 Diluted EPS of $19.25, or $19.34 as adjusted  

Fourth Quarter 2014 Diluted EPS of $4.77, or $4.82 as adjusted  

Record Long-term Net Inflows for Full Year and Fourth Quarter of 2014  

BlackRock Board of Directors Approves 13% Increase in Quarterly Dividend Per Share to $2.18 and  

Authorizes Repurchase of an Additional 6 Million Shares under Existing Share Repurchase Program  

   ¡   8% AUM growth from the fourth quarter of 2013  

   ¡   $181.3 billion of long-term net inflows for 2014 and $87.8 billion for the fourth quarter of 2014  

   ¡   16% (13% as adjusted) operating income growth for 2014 and 1% growth from the fourth quarter of 2013  

   ¡   40.4% (42.9% as adjusted) operating margin for 2014 and 41.1% (43.6% as adjusted) for the fourth quarter of 2014  

   ¡   Consistent capital management with $250 million of quarterly share repurchases, aggregating $1 billion for the year  

   ¡   13% increase in quarterly cash dividend to $2.18 per share of common stock, payable March 24, 2015 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 6, 2015  

FINANCIAL RESULTS  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Net income represents net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc.   

(2) See notes (1) through (4) to the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income and Supplemental Information on pages 12 through 15 for more information on as adjusted items and the reconciliation to GAAP.  

New York, January 15, 2015 — BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today reported financial results for the three months and year ended December 31, 2014.  

“BlackRock’s full year 2014 results demonstrate the significant investments we have made in recent years to build the depth and breadth of our global platform,” commented Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and CEO of BlackRock. “In an environment of heightened market uncertainty, our clients’ investment challenges are increasingly complex. Our ability to leverage active and index strategies to deliver global solutions to clients, backed by our unifying Aladdin technology platform, creates a distinct competitive advantage, and resulted in strong organic growth and consistent financial results.  

“Our long-term net inflows of $181 billion in 2014, up 55% from the prior year, are the strongest annual net inflows in BlackRock’s history. In addition, our cash management business had more than $25 billion of net inflows in 2014. These results demonstrate the power of the business model that we deliberately built to perform in all market environments.  

-1-  

“Strong institutional results in 2014 were driven by creating and expanding partnerships with leading global institutions seeking solutions across index, active, multi-asset and alternative strategies. The breadth of our global platform enables BlackRock to design and deliver these client-centric investment solutions and to enhance our relationship with institutional clients by also offering investment advice, Aladdin analytics, and risk management and advisory capabilities.  

“In Retail and iShares, we reached significant milestones in 2014, crossing $500 billion in Retail and $1 trillion in iShares assets under management. We did this by strengthening global distribution partnerships and expanding our global market share. We had 56 distinct Retail and iShares products that each generated more than $1 billion in net inflows, up from 43 such products in 2013. We captured the number one share of industry ETF flows in the US, in Europe and globally. Further highlighting our global reach, there were 13 countries where we had net inflows in excess of $1 billion in 2014, and we now manage assets in excess of $1 billion for clients domiciled in each of 41 countries.  

“Investment performance is the core driver of our ability to meet clients’ needs. In fixed income, BlackRock is generating consistent alpha in strategies that span geography, duration and exposure, with 91% of our active fixed income assets above benchmark or peer median for the three-year period. We also continue to make progress on the reinvigoration and globalization of our fundamental active equity business.  

“I would like to thank all of our employees for their hard work and incredible dedication in 2014. Together, we remain focused on reaffirming our principles and values that drive our fiduciary duty to clients and commitment to value creation for shareholders.”  

RESULTS BY CLIENT TYPE  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Base fees include investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue.  

Long-Term Business Highlights  

Long-term net inflows were positive across all regions, with net inflows of $61.7 billion, $14.8 billion and $11.3 billion from clients in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific, respectively. At December 31, 2014, BlackRock managed 61% of its long-term AUM for investors in the Americas and 39% for clients in EMEA and Asia-Pacific.  

A discussion of the Company’s net flows by client type for the fourth quarter of 2014 is presented below.  

   ¡   Retail long-term net inflows of $23.0 billion included net inflows of $20.5 billion in the United States and $2.5 billion internationally. Net inflows were led by fixed income net inflows of $15.4 billion, which were diversified across exposures, with $4.6 billion of net inflows into the unconstrained Strategic Income Opportunities fund, $2.0 billion into the Total Return fund and $1.9 billion into the High Yield suite. The Multi-Asset Income fund family raised an additional $1.8 billion of net new assets.  

   ¡   iShares® long-term net inflows of $44.2 billion included equity net inflows of $24.2 billion, driven by flows into the Core Series, as well as demand for broad U.S. equity exposures. Fixed income net inflows of $20.2 billion were diversified across exposures.  

-2-  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   ¡   Institutional index long-term net inflows of $19.6 billion were driven by fixed income and equity net inflows of $10.1 billion and $8.6 billion, respectively.  

Cash management AUM increased 5% to $296.4 billion.  

Advisory AUM decreased 6% to $21.7 billion.  

INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2014(1)   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Past performance is not indicative of future results. The performance information shown is based on preliminary available data. Please refer to page 16 for performance disclosure detail.  

Teleconference, Webcast and Presentation Information  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Laurence D. Fink, and Chief Financial Officer, Gary S. Shedlin, will host a teleconference call for investors and analysts on Thursday, January 15, 2015 at 8:30 a.m. (Eastern Time). Members of the public who are interested in participating in the teleconference should dial, from the United States, (800) 374-0176, or from outside the United States, (706) 679-8281, shortly before 8:30 a.m. and reference the BlackRock Conference Call (ID Number 60891548). A live, listen-only webcast will also be available via the investor relations section of www.blackrock.com.  

Both the teleconference and webcast will be available for replay by 12:30 p.m. (Eastern Time) on Thursday, January 15, 2015 and ending at midnight on Thursday, January 29, 2015. To access the replay of the teleconference, callers from the United States should dial (855) 859-2056 and callers from outside the United States should dial (404) 537-3406 and enter the Conference ID Number 60891548. To access the webcast, please visit the investor relations section of www.blackrock.com.  

About BlackRock  

BlackRock is a leader in investment management, risk management and advisory services for institutional and retail clients worldwide. At December 31, 2014, BlackRock’s AUM was $4.652 trillion. BlackRock helps clients meet their goals and overcome challenges with a range of products that include separate accounts, mutual funds, iShares® (exchange-traded funds), and other pooled investment vehicles. BlackRock also offers risk management, advisory and enterprise investment system services to a broad base of institutional investors through BlackRock Solutions®. Headquartered in New York City, as of December 31, 2014, the firm had approximately 12,200 employees in more than 30 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including North and South America, Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East and Africa. For additional information, please visit the Company’s website at www.blackrock.com | Twitter: @blackrock_news | Blog: www.blackrockblog.com | LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/blackrock  

-3-  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION  

(in millions, except shares and per share data), (unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

See pages 12-15 for the reconciliation to GAAP and notes (1) through (4) for more information on as adjusted items.  

-4-  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION  

(in millions, except shares and per share data), (unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

See pages 12-15 for the reconciliation to GAAP and notes (1) through (4) for more information on as adjusted items.  

-5-  

ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT  

(in millions), (unaudited)  

Current Quarter Component Changes by Client Type and Product  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Current Quarter Component Changes by Product  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Foreign exchange reflects the impact of converting non-U.S. dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.  

 (2)  Average AUM is calculated as the average of the month-end spot AUM amounts for the trailing four months.  

 (3)  Advisory AUM represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.  

 (4)  Amounts include commodity iShares.  

-6-  

ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT  

(in millions), (unaudited)  

Year-over-Year Component Changes by Client Type and Product  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Year-over-Year Component Changes by Product   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Foreign exchange reflects the impact of converting non-U.S. dollar denominated AUM into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.  

(2) Average AUM is calculated as the average of the month-end spot AUM amounts for the trailing thirteen months.  

(3) Advisory AUM represents long-term portfolio liquidation assignments.  

(4) Amounts include commodity iShares.  

-7-  

 SUMMARY OF REVENUE  

 (in millions), (unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Highlights  

 ¡   Investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue increased $116 million from the fourth quarter of 2013 due to higher long-term average AUM. Securities lending fees of $117 million in the current quarter increased $17 million from the fourth quarter of 2013.  

Investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue decreased $72 million from the third quarter of 2014, primarily due to the impact of beta and foreign exchange movements.  

 ¡   Performance fees decreased $124 million from the fourth quarter of 2013, which included a large fee associated with the partial liquidation of a closed-end opportunistic fund, due to lower fees from alternative products.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

-8-  

 SUMMARY OF EXPENSE  

 (in millions), (unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Highlights  

 ¡   Employee compensation and benefits decreased $47 million from the third quarter of 2014, reflecting lower incentive compensation.  

 ¡   General and administration expense decreased $23 million from the fourth quarter of 2013, reflecting lower professional services, other general and administration expense, and various lease exit costs included in the fourth quarter of 2013.  

General and administration expense increased $11 million from the third quarter of 2014, reflecting foreign currency remeasurement, and higher marketing and promotional expense. The third quarter of 2014 reflected a $50 million expense related to the reduction of an indemnification asset (offset by a $50 million tax benefit – see Income Tax Expense highlights on page 11). Amounts related to the reduction of the indemnification asset have been excluded from as adjusted results.  

-9-  

SUMMARY OF NONOPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE)  

(in millions), (unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Net of net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (“NCI”).  

(2) Percentages represent estimated percentages of BlackRock’s corporate economic investment portfolio at December 31, 2014. Economic investment amounts at September 30, 2014 for private equity, real estate, distressed credit/mortgage funds/opportunistic funds, hedge funds/funds of hedge funds and other investments were $323 million, $121 million, $66 million, $266 million and $590 million, respectively. See the 2014 third quarter Form 10-Q for more information.  

(3) Amounts include net gains (losses) related to equity and fixed income investments, and BlackRock’s seed capital hedging program.  

Highlights  

 ¡   Net gain (loss) on investments decreased from the fourth quarter of 2013 and third quarter of 2014 due to lower returns on the co-investment and seed portfolio.  

-10-  

INCOME TAX EXPENSE  

(in millions), (unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Highlights  

 ¡   The fourth quarter 2014 GAAP effective tax rate of 25.5% benefited from $39 million of nonrecurring items.  

The fourth quarter 2013 GAAP effective tax rate of 26.7% benefited from certain nonrecurring items.  

The third quarter 2014 GAAP effective tax rate of 20.2% included a $32 million noncash benefit, primarily associated with the revaluation of certain deferred income tax liabilities related to intangible assets and goodwill as a result of domestic state and local tax changes, which has been excluded from the as adjusted results. In addition, the third quarter of 2014 included a $94 million tax benefit, primarily due to the resolution of certain outstanding tax matters related to the acquisition of Barclays Global Investors. In connection with the acquisition, BlackRock recorded a $50 million indemnification asset for unrecognized tax benefits. Due to the resolution of such tax matters, BlackRock recorded $50 million of general and administration expense to reflect the reduction of the indemnification asset and an offsetting $50 million tax benefit. The $50 million general and administrative expense and $50 million tax benefit have been excluded from as adjusted results as there is no impact on BlackRock’s book value.  

ECONOMIC TANGIBLE ASSETS  

(in billions), (unaudited)  

The Company presents economic tangible assets as additional information to enable investors to eliminate gross presentation of certain assets that have equal and offsetting liabilities or noncontrolling interests that ultimately do not have an impact on stockholders’ equity (excluding appropriated retained earnings related to consolidated collateralized loan obligations) or cash flows. In addition, goodwill and intangible assets are excluded from economic tangible assets.  

Economic tangible assets include cash, receivables, seed and co-investments, regulatory investments and other assets.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

SHARE REPURCHASE APPROVAL  

In January 2015, the Board of Directors has authorized the Company to repurchase an additional 6.0 million shares under its existing share repurchase program for a total up to 9.4 million shares of BlackRock common stock.  

-11-  

RECONCILIATION OF U.S. GAAP OPERATING INCOME AND OPERATING MARGIN TO OPERATING INCOME AND OPERATING MARGIN, AS ADJUSTED   

(in millions), (unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

See note (1) to the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income and Supplemental Information on page 14 for more information on as adjusted items and the reconciliation to GAAP.  

RECONCILIATION OF U.S. GAAP NONOPERATING INCOME NET OF NCI TO NONOPERATING INCOME NET OF NCI, AS ADJUSTED   

(in millions), (unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

See note (2) to the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income and Supplemental Information on page 15 for more information on as adjusted items and the reconciliation to GAAP.  

-12-  

RECONCILIATION OF U.S. GAAP NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO BLACKROCK TO NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO BLACKROCK, AS ADJUSTED   

(in millions, except per share data), (unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

See notes (3) and (4) to the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income and Supplemental Information on page 15 for more information on as adjusted items and the reconciliation to GAAP.  

-13-  

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION (unaudited)   

BlackRock reports its financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”); however, management believes evaluating the Company’s ongoing operating results may be enhanced if investors have additional non-GAAP financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations and, for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock’s financial performance over time. BlackRock’s management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.  

Computations for all periods are derived from the condensed consolidated statements of income as follows:  

(1) Operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted:  

Operating income, as adjusted, equals operating income, GAAP basis, excluding certain items management deems nonrecurring, recurring infrequently or transactions that ultimately will not impact BlackRock’s book value. Management believes operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, are effective indicators of BlackRock’s financial performance over time and, therefore, provide useful disclosure to investors.  

   ¡   Operating income, as adjusted, includes non-GAAP expense adjustments. The portion of compensation expense associated with certain long-term incentive plans (“LTIP”) funded, or to be funded, through share distributions to participants of BlackRock stock held by The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (“PNC”) has been excluded because it ultimately does not impact BlackRock’s book value. Compensation expense associated with appreciation (depreciation) on investments related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans has been excluded as returns on investments set aside for these plans, which substantially offset this expense, are reported in nonoperating income (expense). General and administration expenses relating to the reduction of an indemnification asset has been excluded since it is directly offset by a tax benefit of the same amount and, consequently, does not impact BlackRock’s book value.  

The third quarter and year ended 2013 included a $124 million expense related to the Company’s charitable contribution of 6.1 million units of its PennyMac equity method investment with a fair value of $124 million to a donor advised fund (the “Charitable Contribution”). The Charitable Contribution has been excluded from operating income, as adjusted due to its nonrecurring nature and because the noncash, nonoperating pre-tax gain of $80 million related to the contributed PennyMac investment is reported in nonoperating income (expense).  

Management believes operating income exclusive of these items is a useful measure in evaluating BlackRock’s operating performance and helps enhance the comparability of this information for the reporting periods presented.  

   ¡   Operating margin, as adjusted, allows BlackRock to compare performance from period to period by adjusting for items that may not recur, recur infrequently or may have an economic offset in nonoperating income (expense). BlackRock also uses operating margin, as adjusted, to monitor corporate performance and efficiency and as a benchmark to compare its performance with other companies. Management uses both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures in evaluating BlackRock’s financial performance. The non-GAAP measure by itself may pose limitations because it does not include all of BlackRock’s revenue and expense.  

Operating income used for measuring operating margin, as adjusted, is equal to operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and related commissions. Management believes the exclusion of such costs and related commissions is useful because these costs can fluctuate considerably and revenue associated with the expenditure of these costs will not fully impact BlackRock’s results until future periods.  

Revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, excludes distribution and servicing costs paid to related parties and other third parties. Management believes the exclusion of such costs is useful because it creates consistency in the treatment for certain contracts for similar services, which due to the terms of the contracts, are accounted for under GAAP on a net basis within investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue. Amortization of deferred sales commissions is excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because such costs, over time, substantially offset distribution fee revenue the Company earns. For each of these items, BlackRock excludes from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, the costs related to each of these items as a proxy for such offsetting revenue.  

-14-  

(2) Nonoperating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted:  

Nonoperating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, equals nonoperating income (expense), GAAP basis, less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, adjusted for compensation expense associated with (appreciation) depreciation on investments related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans. The compensation expense offset is recorded in operating income. This compensation expense has been included in nonoperating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, to offset returns on investments set aside for these plans, which are reported in nonoperating income (expense), GAAP basis.  

Management believes nonoperating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, provides comparability of information among reporting periods and is an effective measure for reviewing BlackRock’s nonoperating contribution to results. As compensation expense associated with (appreciation) depreciation on investments related to certain deferred compensation plans, which is included in operating income, substantially offsets the gain (loss) on the investments set aside for these plans, management believes nonoperating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, provides a useful measure, for both management and investors, of BlackRock’s nonoperating results that impact book value. During 2013, the noncash, nonoperating pre-tax gain of $80 million related to the contributed PennyMac investment has been excluded from nonoperating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted due to its nonrecurring nature and because the more than offsetting associated Charitable Contribution expense of $124 million is reported in operating income.  

(3) Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted:  

Management believes net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, and diluted earnings per common share, as adjusted, are useful measures of BlackRock’s profitability and financial performance. Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, equals net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., GAAP basis, adjusted for significant nonrecurring items, charges that ultimately will not impact BlackRock’s book value or certain tax items that do not impact cash flow.  

The year ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 reflected the revaluation of deferred income tax liabilities related to intangible assets and goodwill. The year ended December 31, 2014 included a $32 million noncash tax benefit and a $23 million noncash tax expense both arising primarily from state and local income tax changes. The year ended December 31, 2013 included a $69 million noncash tax benefit, primarily related to legislation enacted in the United Kingdom and state and local income tax changes. Such amounts for 2014 and 2013 have been excluded from the as adjusted results as they will not have a cash flow impact and to ensure comparability among periods presented.  

See note (1) Operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, for information on the PNC LTIP funding obligation and the Charitable Contribution.  

For each period presented, the non-GAAP adjustment related to the PNC LTIP funding obligation was tax effected at the respective blended rates applicable to the adjustments. The 2013 amount included a tax benefit of approximately $48 million recognized in connection with the Charitable Contribution. The tax benefit has been excluded from net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted due to the nonrecurring nature of the Charitable Contribution.  

(4) Nonvoting participating preferred stock is considered to be a common stock equivalent for purposes of determining basic and diluted earnings per share calculations.  

-15-  

Forward-looking Statements  

This earnings release, and other statements that BlackRock may make, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRock’s future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as “trend,” “potential,” “opportunity,” “pipeline,” “believe,” “comfortable,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “current,” “intention,” “estimate,” “position,” “assume,” “outlook,” “continue,” “remain,” “maintain,” “sustain,” “seek,” “achieve,” and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “may” and similar expressions.  

BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.  

In addition to risk factors previously disclosed in BlackRock’s Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) reports and those identified elsewhere in this earnings release, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes and volatility in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment, foreign exchange rates or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management; (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRock’s investment products; (4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (6) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (7) the extent and timing of any share repurchases; (8) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property, information and cyber security protection; (9) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock or PNC; (10) terrorist activities, international hostilities and natural disasters, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries or BlackRock; (11) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (12) fluctuations in the carrying value of BlackRock’s economic investments; (13) the impact of changes to tax legislation, including income, payroll and transaction taxes, and taxation on products or transactions, which could affect the value proposition to clients and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (14) BlackRock’s success in maintaining the distribution of its products; (15) the impact of BlackRock electing to provide support to its products from time to time and any potential liabilities related to securities lending or other indemnification obligations; and (16) the impact of problems at other financial institutions or the failure or negative performance of products at other financial institutions.  

BlackRock’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and BlackRock’s subsequent filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and on BlackRock’s website at www.blackrock.com, discuss these factors in more detail and identify additional factors that can affect forward-looking statements. The information contained on the Company’s website is not a part of this earnings release.  

Performance Notes  

Past performance is not indicative of future results. Except as specified, the performance information shown is as of December 31, 2014 and is based on preliminary data available at that time. The performance data shown reflects information for all actively and passively managed equity and fixed income accounts, including U.S. registered investment companies, European-domiciled retail funds and separate accounts for which performance data is available, including performance data for high net worth accounts available as of November 30, 2014. The performance data does not include accounts terminated prior to December 31, 2014 and accounts for which data has not yet been verified. If such accounts had been included, the performance data provided may have substantially differed from that shown.  

Performance comparisons shown are gross-of-fees for U.S. retail, institutional and high net worth separate accounts as well as EMEA institutional separate accounts, and net-of-fee for European domiciled retail funds. The performance tracking shown for institutional index accounts is based on gross-of-fee performance and includes all institutional accounts and all iShares funds globally using an index strategy. AUM information is based on AUM available as of December 31, 2014 for each account or fund in the asset class shown without adjustment for overlapping management of the same account or fund. Fund performance reflects the reinvestment of dividends and distributions.  

Source of performance information and peer medians is BlackRock, Inc. and is based in part on data from Lipper Inc. for U.S. funds and Morningstar, Inc. for non-U.S. funds.  

-16-