Form 8-K   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C. 20549  

FORM 8-K  

CURRENT REPORT  

PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF  

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

DATE OF REPORT (DATE OF EARLIEST EVENT REPORTED) February 12, 2015  

EXPEDIA, INC.  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

333 108th Avenue NE  

Bellevue, Washington 98004  

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)  

(425) 679-7200  

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code  

Not Applicable  

(Former name or former address if changed since last report)  

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:  

 ¨ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

 ¨ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

 ¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))  

 ¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))  

 Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure  

On February 12, 2015, Expedia, Inc. (“Expedia”) issued a press release announcing that Expedia has entered into a definitive agreement under which it will acquire Orbitz Worldwide, Inc. (“Orbitz Worldwide”), including all of Orbitz Worldwide’s brands, for $12.00 per share in cash. The acquisition is subject to approval by holders of a majority of Orbitz Worldwide’s common stock and other customary closing conditions, including applicable regulatory approvals. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.  

This information shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing. 

Forward-Looking Statements  

This communication includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as Expedia, Orbitz or management of either company “will,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “foresees,” “forecasts,” “estimates” or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements herein that describe the proposed transaction, including its financial and operational impact, and other statements of management’s beliefs, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. It is uncertain whether any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do, what impact they will have on the results of operations and financial condition of the combined companies or the price of Expedia or Orbitz stock. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the parties’ control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to the ability of the parties to consummate the proposed transaction and the satisfaction of the conditions precedent to consummation of the proposed transaction, including the receipt of stockholder approval, the ability to secure regulatory approvals on the terms expected, at all or in a timely manner; the ability of Expedia to successfully integrate Orbitz’s operations; the ability of Expedia to implement its plans, forecasts and other expectations with respect to Orbitz’s business after the completion of the transaction and realize expected synergies; business disruption following the merger; and the other risks and important factors contained and identified in Expedia’s and Orbtiz’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), such as their respective Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Reports on Form 10-K, any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this press release are made only as of the date hereof. Neither Expedia nor Orbitz undertakes any obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.  

 Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.  

(d) Exhibits  

  Exhibit Number    Description 

 99.1   Press release of Expedia, Inc. and Orbitz Worldwide, Inc., dated February 12, 2015.  

SIGNATURE  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  

 EXPEDIA, INC. 

 By:   

/s/ Robert J. Dzielak 

   Robert J. Dzielak 

   Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary  

Dated: February 12, 2015.  

EXHIBIT INDEX  

  Exhibit Number    Description 

 99.1   Press release of Expedia, Inc. and Orbitz Worldwide, Inc., dated February 12, 2015.