4Q 2014 Exhibit 99.1   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Freeport-McMoRan

Reports Fourth-Quarter and Year Ended December 31, 2014 Results

      [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪On November 3, 2014, FCX completed the sale of its 80 percent ownership interests in the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado copper mining operations for $1.8 billion in cash.

▪During fourth-quarter 2014, FM O&G achieved several positive results in its exploration and development program, including positive well results at Holstein Deep, Power Nap and Dorado in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico (GOM) and a successful well test at Highlander onshore in South Louisiana.

▪FCX is taking aggressive actions to reduce or defer capital expenditures and other costs and has initiated efforts to obtain third-party funding for a significant portion of its oil and gas capital expenditures to maintain financial strength and flexibility in response to recent sharp declines in oil prices. In addition, FCX is monitoring copper markets and will be responsive to market conditions. As a first step, FCX has reduced budgeted 2015 capital expenditures, exploration and other costs by a total of $2 billion. FCX has a broad set of natural resource assets that provide many alternatives for future actions to enhance its financial flexibility. Additional capital cost reductions, potential additional divestitures or monetizations and other actions will be pursued as required to maintain a strong balance sheet while preserving a strong resource position and portfolio of assets with attractive long-term growth prospects.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Freeport-McMoRan  1

PHOENIX, AZ, January 27, 2015 - Freeport-McMoRan Inc. (NYSE: FCX) reported net loss attributable to common stock of $2.9 billion, $2.75 per share, for fourth-quarter 2014 and $1.3 billion, $1.26 per share, for the year 2014, compared with net income of $707 million, $0.68 per share, for fourth-quarter 2013 and $2.7 billion, $2.64 per share, for the year 2013. FCX’s net loss attributable to common stock included net charges of $3.1 billion ($3.00 per share) in fourth-quarter 2014 and $3.3 billion ($3.22 per share) for the year 2014, primarily comprised of amounts associated with a reduction in the carrying values of oil and gas properties pursuant to full cost accounting rules and goodwill impairment charges, partly offset by net noncash mark-to-market gains on oil and gas derivative contracts and a net gain from the sale of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining operations. Net income attributable to common stock included net charges of $166 million ($0.16 per share) in fourth-quarter 2013 and $47 million ($0.04 per share) for the year 2013, comprised of net noncash mark-to-market losses on oil and gas derivative contracts and other items described in the summary financial data below.

James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board; Richard C. Adkerson, Vice Chairman, and FCX President and Chief Executive Officer; and James C. Flores, Vice Chairman, and FM O&G President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "During 2014, our organization achieved strong operating performance and project development milestones despite challenging commodity market conditions, which emerged late in the year. As we enter 2015, we are implementing a series of initiatives to reduce capital and operating costs to maintain financial strength during a period of weaker commodity prices while preserving a strong resource position and a portfolio of assets with attractive long-term growth prospects. With our high quality portfolio of large scale assets, exposure to markets with favorable long-term fundamentals, and track record for effective management of our operations and balance sheet, we are confident in our ability to generate value for shareholders.” 

SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes the results of FCX Oil & Gas Inc. (FM O&G) beginning June 1, 2013.

b.For segment financial results, refer to the supplemental schedules, "Business Segments," beginning on page XI, which is available on FCX's website, "www.fcx.com."[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Freeport-McMoRan  2

million to net loss attributable to common stock or $0.37 per share) for the year 2014 and $(312) million ($(194) million to net income attributable to common stock or $(0.19) per share) for the seven-month period from June 1, 2013, to December 31, 2013. For further discussion, refer to the supplemental schedule, "Derivative Instruments," beginning on page X, which is available on FCX's website, "www.fcx.com."[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

j.FCX defers recognizing profits on intercompany sales until final sales to third parties occur. For a summary of net impacts from changes in these deferrals, refer to the supplemental schedule, "Deferred Profits," on page XI, which is available on FCX's website.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Freeport-McMoRan  3

SUMMARY OPERATING DATA

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes the results of FM O&G beginning June 1, 2013.

b.Reflects per pound weighted-average production and delivery costs and unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for all copper mines, excluding net noncash and other costs. For reconciliations of per pound unit costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedules, "Product Revenues and Production Costs," beginning on page XIV, which is available on FCX's website, "www.fcx.com."

c.Excludes $0.04 per pound of copper for fixed costs charged directly to cost of sales as a result of the impact of export restrictions on PT Freeport Indonesia's (PT-FI) operating rates.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

e.Cash operating margin for oil and gas operations reflects realized revenues less cash production costs. Realized revenues exclude noncash mark-to-market adjustments on derivative contracts, and cash production costs exclude accretion and other costs. For reconciliations of realized revenues and cash production costs per BOE to revenues and production and delivery costs reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedules, “Product Revenues and Production Costs,” beginning on page XIV, which is available on FCX's website, “www.fcx.com.”

Consolidated Sales Volumes

Fourth-quarter 2014 consolidated copper sales of 972 million pounds were lower than fourth-quarter 2013 sales of 1.14 billion pounds, primarily reflecting the sale of Candelaria in November 2014 and lower sales from Cerro Verde and Indonesia, partly offset by higher sales from North America. Fourth-quarter 2014 sales were approximately three percent lower than the October 2014 estimate of 1.0 billion pounds, primarily reflecting lower production from Indonesia as a result of labor-related work stoppages during the period. 

Fourth-quarter 2014 consolidated gold sales of 377 thousand ounces were lower than fourth-quarter 2013 sales of 512 thousand ounces because of anticipated lower ore grades, but higher than the October 2014 estimate of 350 thousand ounces.

Freeport-McMoRan  4

Fourth-quarter 2014 consolidated molybdenum sales of 21 million pounds were slightly lower than fourth-quarter 2013 sales of 22 million pounds, but approximated the October 2014 estimate of 21 million pounds.

Fourth-quarter 2014 sales from oil and gas operations of 12.1 MMBOE, including 8.1 million barrels (MMBbls) of crude oil, 20.9 billion cubic feet (Bcf) of natural gas and 0.6 MMBbls of natural gas liquids (NGLs), were lower than fourth-quarter 2013 sales of 16.6 MMBOE because of the sale of the Eagle Ford properties in June 2014, but were higher than the October 2014 estimate of 11.5 MMBOE, reflecting strong well performance and reduced downtime.

Consolidated sales for the year 2015 are expected to approximate 4.3 billion pounds of copper, 1.3 million ounces of gold, 95 million pounds of molybdenum and 55.5 MMBOE, including 950 million pounds of copper, 225 thousand ounces of gold, 23 million pounds of molybdenum and 13.1 MMBOE in first-quarter 2015. 

Consolidated Unit Costs

Mining Unit Net Cash Costs. Consolidated average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for FCX's copper mines of $1.47 per pound of copper in fourth-quarter 2014 were higher than unit net cash costs of $1.16 per pound in fourth-quarter 2013, primarily reflecting lower copper and gold sales volumes. 

Assuming average prices of $1,300 per ounce of gold and $9 per pound of molybdenum and achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, consolidated unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for copper mines are expected to average $1.53 per pound of copper for the year 2015. Quarterly unit net cash costs vary with fluctuations in sales volumes and average realized prices (primarily gold and molybdenum prices). The impact of price changes on 2015 consolidated unit net cash costs would approximate $0.015 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold and $0.02 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum. 

Oil and Gas Cash Production Costs per BOE. Cash production costs for oil and gas operations of $21.93 per BOE in fourth-quarter 2014 were higher than cash production costs of $17.63 per BOE in fourth-quarter 2013, but were lower than the October 2014 estimate of $24 per BOE, primarily reflecting improved volumes. Higher cash production costs per BOE in fourth-quarter 2014, compared to fourth-quarter 2013, primarily reflected the sale of lower cost Eagle Ford properties in June 2014 and higher operating costs for the GOM. 

Based on current sales volume and cost estimates, cash production costs are expected to approximate $18 per BOE for the year 2015. 

MINING OPERATIONS

North America Copper Mines.  FCX operates seven open-pit copper mines in North America - Morenci, Bagdad, Safford, Sierrita and Miami in Arizona, and Chino and Tyrone in New Mexico. All of the North America mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci. FCX records its 85 percent joint venture interest in Morenci using the proportionate consolidation method. In addition to copper, molybdenum concentrates are also produced by certain of FCX's North America copper mines.

Operating and Development Activities.  FCX has increased production from its North America copper mines in recent years and continues to evaluate a number of opportunities to add production capacity following positive exploration results. Future investments will be undertaken based on the results of economic and technical feasibility studies and market conditions. 

At Morenci, the mill expansion project commenced operations in May 2014 and is expected to achieve full rates in first-quarter 2015. The project targets average incremental annual production of approximately 225 million pounds of copper through an increase in milling rates from 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to approximately 115,000 metric tons of ore per day. Morenci's mill rates averaged 100,900 metric tons per day in fourth-quarter 2014. Morenci's copper production is expected to average over 900 million pounds per year over the next five years, compared with 691 million pounds in 2014.

Construction of the expanded Morenci milling facility is substantially complete. Remaining items include completion of the molybdenum circuit, which adds capacity of approximately 9 million pounds of molybdenum per year, and the construction of an expanded tailings storage facility, which is expected to be completed in 2015. At December 31, 2014, approximately $1.6 billion had been incurred for the Morenci mill expansion project, with approximately $55 million remaining to be incurred. 

Freeport-McMoRan  5

Operating Data. Following is summary consolidated operating data for the North America copper mines for the fourth quarters and years ended 2014 and 2013: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Refer to summary operating data on page 4 for FCX's consolidated molybdenum sales, which includes sales of molybdenum produced at the North America copper mines.

b.For a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedules, "Product Revenues and Production Costs," beginning on page XIV, which is available on FCX's website, "www.fcx.com." 

North America's consolidated copper sales volumes of 434 million pounds in fourth-quarter 2014 were higher than fourth-quarter 2013 sales of 334 million pounds, primarily reflecting higher mining and milling rates at Morenci and higher ore grades at Chino. Copper sales from North America are expected to increase to approximately 1.9 billion pounds of copper for the year 2015, compared with 1.66 billion pounds of copper in 2014, primarily as a result of higher rates from the Morenci mill expansion.

Average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for the North America copper mines of $1.74 per pound of copper in fourth-quarter 2014 were lower than unit net cash costs of $1.82 per pound in fourth-quarter 2013, primarily reflecting higher copper sales volumes. Average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for the North America copper mines are expected to approximate $1.67 per pound of copper for the year 2015, based on current sales volume and cost estimates and assuming an average molybdenum price of $9 per pound. North America's average unit net cash costs for the year 2015 would change by approximately $0.04 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum. 

South America Mining.  FCX operates two copper mines in South America - Cerro Verde in Peru (in which FCX owns a 53.56 percent interest) and El Abra in Chile (in which FCX owns a 51 percent interest). All operations in South America are consolidated in FCX's financial statements. In addition to copper, the Cerro Verde mine produces molybdenum concentrates. 

On November 3, 2014, FCX completed the previously announced sale of its 80 percent ownership interests in the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado copper mining operations and supporting infrastructure to Lundin Mining Corporation for $1.8 billion in cash, before closing adjustments and contingent consideration of up to $200 million. Excluding contingent consideration, FCX received after-tax net proceeds of $1.5 billion and recorded an after-tax net gain of $450 million. 

Development Activities.  Construction activities associated with a large-scale expansion at Cerro Verde are advancing toward completion in late 2015. Detailed engineering and major procurement activities are complete and construction progress is more than 50 percent complete. The project will expand the concentrator facilities from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2016. As of December 31, 2014, $3.1 billion had been incurred for this project, with approximately $1.5 billion remaining to be incurred. 

Freeport-McMoRan  6

FCX continues to evaluate a potential large-scale milling operation at El Abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. Exploration results in recent years at El Abra indicate a significant sulfide resource, which could potentially support a major mill project. Future investments will be dependent on technical studies, economic factors and global copper market conditions. 

Operating Data. Following is summary consolidated operating data for the South America mining operations for the fourth quarters and years ended 2014 and 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes the results of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines through November 3, 2014. 

b.Refer to summary operating data on page 4 for FCX's consolidated molybdenum sales, which includes sales of molybdenum produced at Cerro Verde.

c.For a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedules, "Product Revenues and Production Costs," beginning on page XIV, which is available on FCX's website, "www.fcx.com."

d.The 2013 periods include charges of $36 million ($0.09 per pound of copper for fourth-quarter and $0.03 per pound for the year) associated with new labor agreements at Cerro Verde.

South America's consolidated copper sales volumes of 247 million pounds in fourth-quarter 2014 were lower than fourth-quarter 2013 sales of 402 million pounds, primarily reflecting the sale of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado operations and anticipated lower ore grades at Cerro Verde. Sales from South America mining are expected to approximate 0.9 billion pounds of copper for the year 2015, compared with sales of 1.14 billion pounds of copper in 2014.

Average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for South America mining of $1.71 per pound of copper in fourth-quarter 2014 were higher than unit net cash costs of $1.30 per pound in fourth-quarter 2013, primarily reflecting lower volumes from Cerro Verde combined with lower by-product credits primarily resulting from the sale of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining operations. Average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for South America mining are expected to approximate $1.70 per pound of copper for the year 2015, based on current sales volume and cost estimates and assuming an average price $9 per pound of molybdenum.

Freeport-McMoRan  7

Indonesia Mining.  Through its 90.64 percent owned and consolidated subsidiary PT-FI, FCX's assets include one of the world's largest copper and gold deposits at the Grasberg minerals district in Papua, Indonesia. PT-FI operates a proportionately consolidated joint venture, which produces copper concentrates that contain significant quantities of gold and silver.

Regulatory Matters. On July 25, 2014, PT-FI entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Indonesian government under which PT-FI and the government agreed to negotiate an amended Contract of Work (COW) to address provisions related to the size of PT-FI’s concession area, royalties and taxes, domestic processing and refining, divestment, local content, and continuation of operations post-2021. PT-FI is engaged in active discussion with the Indonesian government regarding an amended COW. The MOU has been extended to July 25, 2015. 

Provisions being addressed include the development of new copper smelting and refining capacity in Indonesia, divestment to the Indonesian government and/or Indonesian nationals of up to a 30 percent interest (an additional 20.64 percent interest) in PT-FI at fair value, and continuation of operations from 2022 through 2041. Negotiations are taking into consideration PT-FI’s need for assurance of legal and fiscal terms post-2021 for PT-FI to continue with its large-scale investment program for the development of its underground reserves. 

In July 2014, PT-FI provided a $115 million assurance bond to support its commitment for smelter development, agreed to increase royalties to 4.0 percent for copper and 3.75 percent for gold from the previous rates of 3.5 percent for copper and 1.0 percent for gold, and to pay export duties initially as set forth in a new regulation. The Indonesian government revised its January 2014 regulations regarding export duties, which are now set at 7.5 percent, declining to 5.0 percent when smelter development progress exceeds 7.5 percent and are eliminated when smelter development progress exceeds 30 percent. 

Under the MOU, no terms of the COW other than those relating to export duties, the smelter bond and royalties described above will be changed until the completion of an amended COW.

PT-FI is advancing plans for the construction of new smelter capacity in parallel with completion of negotiations of its long-term operating rights. PT-FI has identified a site adjacent to the existing PT Smelting site in Gresik, Indonesia, for the construction of additional smelter capacity. In addition, PT-FI will discuss the possibility of developing industrial activities in Papua. 

PT-FI is required to apply for renewal of export permits at six-month intervals. In January 2015, PT-FI obtained a renewal of its export license through July 25, 2015.

Development Activities.  PT-FI has several projects in progress in the Grasberg minerals district related to the development of large-scale, long-lived, high-grade underground ore bodies. In aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to ramp up over several years to process approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the transition from the Grasberg open pit, currently anticipated to occur in late 2017. Development of the Grasberg Block Cave and Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ) underground mines is advancing to enable DMLZ to commence production in late 2015 and the Grasberg Block Cave mine to commence production in early 2018. Over the next five years, estimated aggregate capital spending on these projects is currently expected to average $0.9 billion per year ($0.7 billion per year net to PT-FI). Considering the long-term nature and size of these projects, actual costs could vary from these estimates. Additionally, PT-FI may reduce or defer these activities pending resolution of negotiations for an amended COW.

Freeport-McMoRan  8

Operating Data. Following is summary consolidated operating data for the Indonesia mining operations for the fourth quarters and years ended 2014 and 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.For a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedules, "Product Revenues and Production Costs," beginning on page XIV, which is available on FCX's website, "www.fcx.com."

b.Excludes fixed costs totaling $0.22 per pound of copper charged directly to cost of sales as a result of the impact of export restrictions on PT-FI's operating rates.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Indonesia's fourth-quarter 2014 sales of 180 million pounds of copper and 366 thousand ounces of gold were lower than fourth-quarter 2013 copper sales of 292 million pounds and gold sales of 476 thousand ounces, reflecting anticipated lower ore grades and unplanned work stoppages. During fourth-quarter 2014, reduced workforce attendance levels in certain operating areas (primarily in the Grasberg open-pit) unfavorably impacted productivity. Following discussions with union leadership and other stakeholders, attendance levels improved significantly by year-end 2014 and in January 2015. 

At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing of mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in quarterly and annual production of copper and gold. Sales from Indonesia mining are expected to approximate 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 1.3 million ounces of gold for the year 2015, compared with 664 million pounds of copper and 1.2 million ounces of gold for the year 2014. PT-FI has updated its mine plans to incorporate lower than planned mining rates associated with work stoppages in late 2014, resulting in a deferral of completion of mining in the open pit from mid-2017 to late 2017 and resulting timing impacts of metal production. 

A significant portion of PT-FI's costs are fixed and unit costs vary depending on production volumes. Indonesia's unit net cash costs (including gold and silver credits) of $0.58 per pound of copper in fourth-quarter 2014 were higher than unit net cash costs of $0.21 per pound in fourth-quarter 2013, primarily reflecting lower volumes, the impact of export duties and increased royalty rates.

Unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) for Indonesia mining are expected to approximate $1.19 per pound of copper for the year 2015, based on current sales volume and cost estimates, and assuming an average gold price of $1,300 per ounce. Indonesia mining's projected unit net cash costs would change by approximately $0.06 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold. Because of the fixed nature of a large portion of Indonesia's costs, unit costs vary from quarter to quarter depending on copper and gold volumes.

Freeport-McMoRan  9

Africa Mining.  Through its 56 percent owned and consolidated subsidiary Tenke Fungurume Mining S.A.R.L. (TFM), FCX operates in the Tenke Fungurume (Tenke) minerals district in the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). In addition to copper, the Tenke mine produces cobalt hydroxide.

Operating and Development Activities. TFM completed its second phase expansion project in early 2013, which included increasing mine, mill and processing capacity. Construction of a second sulphuric acid plant is under way, with completion expected in 2016. FCX continues to engage in exploration activities and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective minerals district at Tenke. These analyses are being incorporated in future plans for potential expansions of production capacity. Future expansions are subject to a number of factors, including power availability, economic and market conditions, and the business and investment climate in the DRC. 

Operating Data. Following is summary consolidated operating data for TFM's operations for the fourth quarters and years ended 2014 and 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts.

b.For a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedules, "Product Revenues and Production Costs," beginning on page XIV, which is available on FCX's website, "www.fcx.com."

c.Net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs.

TFM's copper sales of 111 million pounds in fourth-quarter 2014 approximated fourth-quarter 2013 copper sales of 112 million pounds. TFM's sales are expected to approximate 445 million pounds of copper and 32 million pounds of cobalt for the year 2015, compared with 425 million pounds of copper and 30 million pounds of cobalt for the year 2014.

Africa mining's unit net cash costs (net of cobalt credits) of $1.37 per pound of copper in fourth-quarter 2014 were higher than unit net cash costs of $1.14 per pound in fourth-quarter 2013, reflecting higher production and delivery costs primarily related to input and mine logistics support costs. Unit net cash costs (net of cobalt credits) for Africa mining are expected to approximate $1.31 per pound of copper for the year 2015, based on current sales volume and cost estimates and assuming an average cobalt price of $13 per pound. Africa mining's projected unit net cash costs would change by approximately $0.09 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of cobalt.

Molybdenum Mines. FCX has two wholly owned molybdenum mines in North America - the Henderson underground mine and the Climax open-pit mine, both in Colorado. The Henderson and Climax mines produce high-purity, chemical-grade molybdenum concentrates, which are typically further processed into value-added 

Freeport-McMoRan  10

molybdenum chemical products. The majority of molybdenum concentrates produced at the Henderson and Climax mines, as well as from North and South America copper mines, are processed at FCX's conversion facilities.

Production from the Molybdenum mines totaled 11 million pounds of molybdenum in fourth-quarter 2014 and 12 million pounds of molybdenum in fourth-quarter 2013. Refer to summary operating data on page 4 for FCX's consolidated molybdenum sales, which includes sales of molybdenum produced at the Molybdenum mines, and from the North and South America copper mines.

Average unit net cash costs for the Molybdenum mines of $8.21 per pound of molybdenum in fourth-quarter 2014 were higher than $7.36 per pound in fourth-quarter 2013, primarily reflecting higher input and repair and maintenance costs. Based on current sales volume and cost estimates, unit net cash costs for the Molybdenum mines are expected to average approximately $7.60 per pound of molybdenum for the year 2015. For a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedules, "Product Revenues and Production Costs," beginning on page XIV, which is available on FCX's website, "www.fcx.com."

Mining Exploration Activities. FCX is conducting exploration activities near its existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves and resources to support development of additional future production capacity in the large minerals districts where it currently operates. Exploration results continue to indicate opportunities for significant future reserve additions in North and South America and in the Tenke minerals district. The drilling data in North America also indicates the potential for significantly expanded sulfide production. Drilling results and exploration modeling in North America have identified large scale potential sulfide resources in the Morenci and Safford/Lone Star districts, providing a long-term pipeline for future growth in reserves and production capacity in an established minerals district. Exploration spending associated with mining operations is expected to approximate $100 million for the year 2015, compared to $96 million in 2014. 

Preliminary Recoverable Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves.  FCX has significant reserves, resources and future development opportunities within its portfolio of mining assets. FCX's preliminary estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable reserves from its mines at December 31, 2014, include 103.5 billion pounds of copper, 28.5 million ounces of gold and 3.11 billion pounds of molybdenum, which were determined using long-term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper (consistent with the long-term average copper price used since December 31, 2010), $1,000 per ounce for gold and $10.00 per pound for molybdenum. The preliminary recoverable proven and probable mining reserves presented in the table below represent the estimated metal quantities from which FCX expects to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. Recoverable reserve volumes are those which FCX estimates can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Freeport-McMoRan  11

The following table summarizes changes in FCX's estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable copper, gold and molybdenum reserves during 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition to preliminary consolidated recoverable proven and probable reserves, FCX's preliminary estimated mineralized material (assessed using a long-term average copper price of $2.20 per pound for copper) totals 103 billion pounds of incremental contained copper as of December 31, 2014. FCX continues to pursue opportunities to convert this material into reserves, future production volumes and cash flow.

OIL & GAS OPERATIONS

FCX's portfolio of oil and gas assets includes significant oil production facilities and growth potential in the Deepwater GOM, established oil production facilities onshore and offshore California, large onshore natural gas resources in the Haynesville shale play in Louisiana, natural gas production from the Madden area in central Wyoming, and an industry-leading position in the emerging Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous natural gas trend located in the shallow waters of the GOM and onshore in South Louisiana. Approximately 90 percent of FCX's oil and gas revenues are from oil and NGLs.

FM O&G follows the full cost method of accounting whereby all costs associated with oil and gas property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized into cost centers on a country-by-country basis. Capitalized costs, along with estimated future costs to develop proved reserves and asset retirement costs that are not already included in oil and gas properties, net of related salvage value, are amortized to expense under the unit-of-production method using estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves. The costs of unproved oil and gas properties are excluded from amortization until the properties are evaluated, at which time the related costs are subject to amortization. Under the full cost accounting rules, a "ceiling test" is conducted each quarter to review the carrying value of the oil and gas properties for impairment. 

 At December 31, 2014 and September 30, 2014, net capitalized costs with respect to FM O&G's proved U.S. oil and gas properties exceeded the ceiling amount specified by SEC full cost accounting rules, which resulted in the recognition of ceiling test impairment charges totaling $3.7 billion ($2.3 billion to net loss attributable to common stock) for the year 2014, including $3.4 billion ($2.1 billion to net loss attributable to common stock) recorded in fourth-quarter 2014. The twelve-month average of the first-day-of-the-month historical reference oil price required to be used under SEC full cost accounting rules in determining the December 31, 2014, ceiling amount was $94.99 per barrel. 

Additionally, during fourth-quarter 2014, goodwill associated with FCX’s oil and gas operations was evaluated, which resulted in impairment charges of $1.7 billion ($1.7 billion to net loss attributable to common stock) to reduce the value of goodwill to zero at December 31, 2014. Crude oil prices and our estimates of oil reserves at December 31, 2014, represent the most significant assumptions used in our evaluation of goodwill. Forward strip Brent oil prices used in our estimates ranged from approximately $62 per barrel to $80 per barrel for the years 2015 through 2021. 

Because the ceiling test limitation uses a twelve-month historical average price, if oil prices remain below the twelve-month 2014 average of $94.99 per barrel the ceiling limitation will decrease in 2015. The effect of weaker oil prices than the 2014 average, increases in capitalized costs and other factors could result in significant additional ceiling test impairments of our oil and gas properties during 2015. Brent crude oil prices averaged $77 per barrel during fourth-quarter 2014 and were $57 per barrel at December 31, 2014, and $48 per barrel at January 26, 2015.

Freeport-McMoRan  12

Financial and Operating Data. Following is summary financial and operating data for the U.S. oil and gas operations for the fourth quarters and years ended 2014 and 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes results from Eagle Ford through June 19, 2014. 

b.Includes the results of FM O&G beginning June 1, 2013.

c.Cash operating margin for oil and gas operations reflects realized revenues less cash production costs. Realized revenues exclude noncash mark-to-market adjustments on derivative contracts, and cash production costs exclude accretion and other costs. For reconciliations of realized revenues (including average realizations for oil, natural gas and NGLs) and cash production costs to revenues and production and delivery costs reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedules, “Product Revenues and Production Costs,” beginning on page XIV, which is available on FCX's website, “www.fcx.com.”

In fourth-quarter 2014, FM O&G's average realized price for crude oil was $78.02 per barrel, including $7.77 per barrel of realized cash gains on derivative contracts. Excluding the impact of derivative contracts, the fourth-quarter 2014 average realized price for crude oil was $70.25 per barrel (91 percent of the average Brent crude oil price of $77.08 per barrel).

FM O&G has derivative contracts that provide price protection between $70 and $90 per barrel of Brent crude oil for more than 80 percent of estimated 2015 oil production. At current Brent crude oil prices approximating $50 per barrel, FCX would receive a benefit of $20 per barrel on 2015 volumes of 30.7 million barrels, before taking into account premiums of $6.89 per barrel. 

In fourth-quarter 2014, FM O&G's average realized price for natural gas was $3.83 per MMBtu. Excluding the impact of derivative contracts, the average realized price for natural gas was $3.79 per MMBtu in fourth-quarter 2014, compared to the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) natural gas price average of $4.01 per MMBtu for the October through December 2014 contracts.

Realized revenues for oil and gas operations of $59.95 per BOE in fourth-quarter 2014 were lower than realized revenues of $73.58 per BOE in fourth-quarter 2013, primarily reflecting lower oil prices, partly offset by the impact of realized cash gains/losses on derivative contracts (realized cash gains were $64 million, or $5.25 per BOE in fourth-quarter 2014, compared with losses of $11 million, or $0.69 per BOE in fourth-quarter 2013).

Freeport-McMoRan  13

Cash production costs of $21.93 per BOE in fourth-quarter 2014 were higher than cash production costs of $17.63 per BOE in fourth-quarter 2013, primarily reflecting the sale of lower cost Eagle Ford properties in June 2014 and higher operating costs for the GOM.

Following is a summary of average oil and gas sales volumes per day by region for oil and gas operations for the fourth quarters and years ended 2014 and 2013: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Reflects the results of FM O&G beginning June 1, 2013.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

c.Results include volume adjustments related to Eagle Ford's pre-close sales. 

d.FM O&G completed the sale of Eagle Ford on June 20, 2014. 

Daily sales volumes averaged 131 MBOE for fourth-quarter 2014, including 87 MBbls of crude oil, 227 MMcf of natural gas and 6 MBbls of NGLs. Oil and gas sales volumes are expected to average 146 MBOE per day for first-quarter 2015 and 152 MBOE per day for the year 2015, comprised of 67 percent oil, 28 percent natural gas and 5 percent NGLs. 

Based on current sales volume and cost estimates, cash production costs are expected to approximate $18 per BOE for first-quarter 2015 and for the year 2015. 

Operating, Development and Exploration Activities. FCX's oil and gas business has significant proved, probable and possible reserves, a broad range of development opportunities and high-potential exploration prospects. The business is managed to reinvest its cash flows in projects with attractive rates of returns and risk profiles. Following the recent sharp decline in oil prices, FCX has taken steps to significantly reduce capital spending plans and near-term oil and gas growth initiatives in order to preserve cash flows and resources for anticipated improved market conditions in the future.

FM O&G has a large strategic position in the Deepwater GOM with significant current oil production, strong cash margins and existing infrastructure and facilities with excess capacity. These assets, combined with FM O&G’s large leasehold interests in an established geologic basin, provide financially attractive investment opportunities for high-impact growth in oil production and cash margins. FM O&G’s capital allocation strategy is principally focused on exploitation drilling and development opportunities that can be tied back to existing facilities. FM O&G expects to fund these activities through oil and gas cash flows, asset sales or other third party joint venture transactions.

During fourth-quarter 2014, FM O&G achieved several positive results in its exploration and development program, including positive well results at Holstein Deep, Power Nap and Dorado in the Deepwater GOM and a successful well test at Highlander onshore in South Louisiana.

Oil and Gas Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures for oil and gas operations totaled $0.8 billion for fourth-quarter 2014 and $3.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014, including $2.1 billion incurred for the Deepwater GOM and $0.7 billion for the Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous natural gas trend. 

Capital expenditures for oil and gas operations for the year 2015 are currently estimated to total $2.3 billion, approximately 34 percent lower than the October 2014 estimate of $3.5 billion. Approximately 80 percent of the 2015 capital budget is expected to be directed to its highest return focus areas in the GOM. FCX is committed to 

Freeport-McMoRan  14

achieving its objective of funding oil and gas capital expenditures with oil and gas cash flows, asset sales or other third party joint venture transactions. FM O&G is engaged in discussions to obtain funding from industry partners and other oil and gas market participants for a substantial portion of its 2015 capital expenditures to achieve this commitment. Third party funding would also enable FM O&G to complete additional development wells for production.

Deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Multiple development and exploration opportunities have been identified in the Deepwater GOM that are expected to benefit from tieback opportunities to available production capacity at the FM O&G operated large-scale Holstein, Marlin and Horn Mountain deepwater production platforms. In addition, FM O&G has interests in the Lucius and Heidelberg oil fields and in the Vito basin area.

In January 2015, first oil production commenced from the Lucius oil field in Keathley Canyon and the operator is continuing to ramp up production. Lucius is a subsea development consisting of six subsea wells tied back to a truss spar hull located in 7,200 feet of water. The spar has a design capacity of 80 MBbls of oil per day and 450 MMcf of natural gas per day. The Lucius field was discovered in November 2009 and the subsequent development project was sanctioned in late 2011. FM O&G has a 25.1 percent working interest in Lucius.

During fourth-quarter 2014, installation operations for flow lines, export lines and suction piles for Heidelberg’s mooring system commenced in the Deepwater GOM. Fabrication of the main topsides module is more than 70 percent complete. The Heidelberg truss spar was designed as a Lucius-look-alike facility with capacity of 80 MBbls of oil per day. Development drilling is in progress and the project remains on track for first production in 2016. Heidelberg is a large, high-quality oil development project located in 5,300 feet of water in the Green Canyon area. FM O&G has a 12.5 percent working interest in Heidelberg.

In December 2014, FM O&G announced successful results from the 100-percent-owned Holstein Deep delineation well in the Green Canyon area. The well, which is approximately one mile south of the discovery well, was drilled to a total depth of 31,100 feet and wireline logs and core data confirmed 234 net feet of Miocene oil pay with excellent reservoir characteristics and good correlation to the discovery well and previous confirmation sidetrack penetration.

In December 2014, FM O&G commenced drilling the second delineation well at Holstein Deep. The well, which is updip to the discovery well, is currently drilling below 24,800 feet towards a proposed total depth of 31,500 feet. Production from the planned three-well development program is expected to reach 15 MBOE per day. The timing of tying in this production will be subject to partner arrangements and general market conditions. 

Based on the results from the Holstein Deep first delineation well, FM O&G increased the net unrisked resource potential of the Holstein Deep field to more than 250 MMBOE from the previous estimate of approximately 140 MMBOE. The data also supports the potential for additional development opportunities at Holstein Deep to achieve production of up to 75 MBOE per day by 2020. The Holstein Deep development is located in Green Canyon Block 643, west of the Holstein platform in 3,890 feet of water. FM O&G has identified multiple additional development opportunities in the Green Canyon area that could be tied back to the Holstein facility.

Marlin, in which FM O&G has a 100 percent working interest, is located in Viosca Knoll and has production facilities capable of producing in excess of 90 MBOE per day. Several tieback opportunities in the area have been identified, including the Dorado and King development projects. 

In December 2014, FM O&G announced positive drilling results from the 100-percent-owned Dorado development project. This well is the first of three planned subsea tieback wells to the Marlin facility targeting undrained fault blocks and updip resource potential south of the Marlin facility. The well is expected to commence production in second-quarter 2015. Drilling operations for the second and third wells are expected to begin in the second half of 2015. The Dorado development is located on Viosca Knoll Block 915 in 3,860 feet of water. 

FM O&G commenced exploitation drilling at the 100-percent-owned King prospect in late 2014 and the well was drilled to a true vertical depth of 12,250 feet in January 2015. Log results indicated 71 net feet of gas pay and FM O&G is preparing a downdip sidetrack to pursue an optimum oil take point below the gas-oil contact in the reservoir. King is located in Mississippi Canyon south of the Marlin facility in 5,200 feet of water.

Horn Mountain, in which FM O&G has a 100 percent working interest, is located in Mississippi Canyon and has production facilities capable of producing in excess of 80 MBOE per day. Several tieback opportunities in the area have been identified including Kilo/Oscar/Quebec/Victory (KOQV), which is expected to commence in 

Freeport-McMoRan  15

mid-2015. This infill drilling program will target undrained fault blocks and updip resource potential just east of the Horn Mountain facility. KOQV is located in approximately 5,500 feet of water.

 In December 2014, the Power Nap exploration well in the Vito area encountered positive drilling results. The well was drilled to a total depth of 30,970 feet and wireline logs and core data indicated that the well encountered hydrocarbons in multiple subsalt Miocene sand packages. The operator is preparing to drill a sidetrack well to delineate the reservoir and test the downdip limit of the oil accumulation. Power Nap, in which FM O&G has a 50 percent working interest, is located in 4,200 feet of water and is operated by Shell Offshore Inc. with a 50 percent working interest.

FM O&G has an 18.67 percent interest in the Vito oil discovery in the Mississippi Canyon area and a significant lease position in the Vito basin in the Mississippi Canyon and Atwater Valley areas. Vito, a large, deep subsalt Miocene oil discovery made in 2009, is located in approximately 4,000 feet of water and is operated by Shell Offshore Inc. Exploration and appraisal drilling in recent years confirmed a significant resource in high-quality, subsalt Miocene sands. Development options are under evaluation.

Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous. FM O&G has an industry-leading position in the emerging Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous natural gas trend, located on the Shelf of the GOM and onshore in South Louisiana. FM O&G has a large onshore and offshore lease acreage position with high-quality prospects and the potential to develop a significant long-term, low-cost source of natural gas. Data from eight wells drilled to date indicate the presence of geologic formations that are analogous to productive formations in the Deepwater GOM and onshore in the Gulf Coast region. 

In December 2014, FM O&G announced a successful flow test from the Tuscaloosa sands in the Highlander discovery well located onshore in South Louisiana. During the testing period, the well flowed at a rate of 43.5 MMcf per day (approximately 21 MMcf per day net to FM O&G) on a 22/64th choke with flowing tubing pressure of 11,880 pounds per square inch. First production is expected in first-quarter 2015 using facilities in the immediate area. The optimal production rate for the well will be determined based on results from the flow test and production history. A second well location has been identified and future plans will be determined pending review of well performance from the first well. FM O&G is the operator and has a 72 percent working interest and an approximate 49 percent net revenue interest in Highlander. FM O&G has identified multiple prospects in the Highlander area where it controls rights to more than 50,000 gross acres. 

The Farthest Gate West onshore exploration prospect commenced drilling in October 2014 and is currently drilling below 18,500 feet towards a proposed total depth of 24,000 feet. Farthest Gate West is located onshore in Cameron Parish, Louisiana, and is a Lineham Creek analog prospect with Paleogene objectives. 

In response to current oil and gas market conditions, future activities at other Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous prospects have been deferred.

California.  FM O&G's California assets benefit from an established oil production base with a stable production profile and access to favorably priced crude markets. Development plans are principally focused on maintaining stable production levels through continued drilling in the long-established producing fields onshore in California. FM O&G’s position in California is located onshore in the San Joaquin Valley and Los Angeles Basin and offshore in the Point Arguello and Point Pedernales fields.

Haynesville.  FM O&G has rights to a substantial natural gas resource, located in the Haynesville shale play in North Louisiana. Drilling activities in recent years have been reduced to maximize cash flows in a low natural gas price environment.

International Exploration (Morocco). FM O&G has a farm-in arrangement to earn interests in exploration blocks located in the Mazagan permit area offshore Morocco. The exploration area covers 2.2 million gross acres in water depths of 4,500 to 9,900 feet. FM O&G expects to commence drilling the first prospect in the first half of 2015.

Freeport-McMoRan  16

Preliminary Proved Oil and Gas Reserves.  FCX's preliminary estimated proved oil and gas reserves at December 31, 2014, totaled 390 MMBOE. The preliminary proved oil and gas reserves presented in the table below were determined using the methods prescribed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which require the use of an average price, calculated as the twelve-month historical average of the first-day-of-the-month historical reference price as adjusted for location and quality differentials, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based on future conditions and the impact of derivatives. Reference prices for reserve determination are the West Texas Intermediate spot price for oil and the Henry Hub spot price for natural gas. At December 31, 2014, our estimates were based on reference prices of $94.99 per barrel and $4.35 per MMBtu. 

In late 2014, FM O&G achieved positive results at Highlander and Holstein Deep, the results of which are expected to be reflected in future reserve reports.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a. Includes 10 MBbls of NGL proved reserves, consisting of 7 MBbls of proved developed and 3 MBbls of proved undeveloped.

The following table summarizes changes in FCX's estimated proved oil and gas reserves during 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a. Includes NGL proved reserves.

CASH FLOWS, CASH and DEBT

Operating Cash Flows. FCX generated operating cash flows of $1.1 billion in fourth-quarter 2014 and $5.6 billion (net of $0.6 billion in working capital uses and changes in other tax payments) for the year 2014. 

Based on current sales volume and cost estimates and assuming average prices of $2.60 per pound of copper, $1,300 per ounce of gold, $9 per pound of molybdenum, and $50 per barrel of Brent crude oil, FCX's consolidated operating cash flows are estimated to approximate $4 billion (including $0.2 billion of working capital sources and changes in other tax payments) for the year 2015. The impact of price changes on 2015 operating cash flows would approximate $315 million for each $0.10 per pound change in the average price of copper, $40 million for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold, $135 million for each $2 per pound change in 

Freeport-McMoRan  17

the average price of molybdenum and $115 million for each $5 per barrel change in the average Brent crude oil price.

Asset Sales. FCX completed approximately $5 billion in asset sales during 2014, including the June 2014 sale of Eagle Ford for $3.1 billion and the November 2014 sale of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining operations for $1.8 billion. Additionally, in January 2015, FCX completed a $140 million sale of its one-third interest in the Luna Energy power facility in New Mexico. 

Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures totaled $1.8 billion for fourth-quarter 2014 and $7.2 billion for the year 2014, including $2.9 billion for major projects at mining operations and $3.2 billion for oil and gas operations.

Capital expenditures are currently expected to approximate $6.0 billion for the year 2015, including $2.5 billion for major projects at mining operations (primarily for the Cerro Verde expansion and underground development activities at Grasberg) and $2.3 billion for oil and gas operations. FCX is taking aggressive actions to reduce or defer capital expenditures and other costs and has initiated efforts to obtain third-party funding for a significant portion of its oil and gas capital expenditures to maintain financial strength and flexibility in response to recent sharp declines in oil prices. In addition, FCX is monitoring copper markets and will be responsive to market conditions. As a first step, FCX has reduced budgeted 2015 capital expenditures, exploration and other costs by a total of $2 billion. FCX has a broad set of natural resource assets that provide many alternatives for future actions to enhance its financial flexibility. Additional capital cost reductions, potential additional divestitures or monetizations and other actions will be pursued as required to maintain a strong balance sheet while preserving a strong resource position and portfolio of assets with attractive long-term growth prospects.

Cash. Following is a summary of cash available to the parent company, net of noncontrolling interests' share, taxes and other costs at December 31, 2014 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Debt. FCX remains committed to a strong balance sheet and will take prudent actions in response to market conditions. FCX has taken steps to sell assets, defer capital spending and will continue to evaluate its portfolio for potential future monetizations. Following is a summary of total debt and related weighted-average interest rates at December 31, 2014 (in billions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On October 15, 2014, FCX redeemed the $400 million principal amount of its 8.625% Senior Notes. Holders received the principal amount together with the redemption premium and accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. FCX recorded a pre-tax gain on early extinguishment of debt of $24 million associated with this redemption. 

In November 2014, FCX completed the sale of $3.0 billion of senior notes, which were comprised of four tranches with a weighted-average interest cost of 4.1 percent. The proceeds from these senior notes were used to fund FCX’s December 2014 tender offers for $1.14 billion aggregate principal of senior notes (with a weighted 

Freeport-McMoRan  18

average interest cost of 6.5 percent), essentially all of FCX’s 2015 scheduled maturities (including scheduled term loan amortization and $500 million in 1.40% Senior Notes due 2015), $300 million in 7.625% Senior Notes, and to repay bank debt. These transactions resulted in a net pre-tax loss on early extinguishment of debt of $14 million in fourth-quarter 2014.

At December 31, 2014, FCX had no borrowings and $45 million of letters of credit issued under its $4 billion revolving credit facility. FCX also has a $1.8 billion facility to fund the Cerro Verde expansion project. At December 31, 2014, $425 million was drawn under this facility. 

FINANCIAL POLICY

FCX has a long-standing tradition of seeking to build shareholder value through investing in projects with attractive rates of return and returning cash to shareholders through common stock dividends and share purchases. FCX paid common stock dividends of $1.3 billion during 2014.

FCX's current annual dividend rate for its common stock is $1.25 per share. On December 19, 2014, FCX's Board of Directors (the Board) declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.3125 per share, which will be paid on February 2, 2015. The declaration of dividends is at the discretion of the Board and will depend upon FCX's financial results, market conditions, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.

FCX intends to continue to maintain a strong financial position, with a focus on reducing debt while continuing to invest in attractive growth projects and providing cash returns to shareholders. The Board will continue to review FCX's financial policy on an ongoing basis.

WEBCAST INFORMATION

A conference call with securities analysts to discuss FCX's fourth-quarter 2014 results is scheduled for today at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The conference call will be broadcast on the Internet along with slides. Interested parties may listen to the conference call live and view the slides by accessing “www.fcx.com.” A replay of the webcast will be available through Friday, February 27, 2015.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FCX is a premier U.S.-based natural resources company with an industry-leading global portfolio of mineral assets, significant oil and gas resources and a growing production profile. FCX is the world's largest publicly traded copper producer. 

FCX's portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, one of the world's largest copper and gold deposits; significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large-scale Morenci minerals district in North America and the Cerro Verde operation in South America; the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the DRC; and significant oil and natural gas assets in North America, including reserves in the Deepwater GOM, onshore and offshore California and in the Haynesville shale play, and an industry-leading position in the emerging shallow water Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous natural gas trend on the Shelf of the GOM and onshore in South Louisiana. Additional information about FCX is available on FCX's website at "www.fcx.com."

Cautionary Statement and Regulation G Disclosure: This press release contains forward-looking statements in which FCX discusses its potential future performance. Forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as projections or expectations relating to ore grades and milling rates, production and sales volumes, unit net cash costs, cash production costs per BOE, operating cash flows, capital expenditures, exploration efforts and results, development and production activities and costs, liquidity, tax rates, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum, cobalt, crude oil and natural gas price changes, the impact of derivative positions, the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings, reserve estimates, future dividend payments, debt reduction and share purchases. The words “anticipates,” “may,” “can,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “projects,” "targets," “intends,” “likely,” “will,” “should,” “to be,” ”potential" and any similar expressions are intended to identify those assertions as forward-looking statements. The declaration of dividends is at the discretion of FCX's Board and will depend on FCX's financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. 

This press release also includes forward-looking statements regarding mineralized material not included in proven and probable mineral reserves. The mineralized material described in this press release will not qualify as reserves until comprehensive engineering studies establish their economic feasibility. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the estimated mineralized material not included in reserves will become proven and probable reserves.

FCX cautions readers that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and its actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that can cause FCX's actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include supply of and demand for, and prices of, copper, gold, 

Freeport-McMoRan  19

molybdenum, cobalt, oil and gas, mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, regulatory changes, political risks, drilling results, the outcome of ongoing discussions with the Indonesian government regarding an amendment to PT-FI's Contract of Work, PT-FI's ability to obtain renewal of its export license after July 25, 2015, the potential effects of violence in Indonesia, the resolution of administrative disputes in the DRC, labor relations, weather- and climate-related risks, environmental risks, litigation results and other factors described in more detail under the heading “Risk Factors” in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as updated by FCX's subsequent filings with the SEC.

Investors are cautioned that many of the assumptions on which FCX's forward-looking statements are based are likely to change after its forward-looking statements are made, including for example commodity prices, which FCX cannot control, and production volumes and costs, some aspects of which FCX may or may not be able to control. Further, FCX may make changes to its business plans that could or will affect its results. FCX cautions investors that it does not intend to update forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly notwithstanding any changes in FCX's assumptions, changes in business plans, actual experience or other changes, and FCX undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.

This press release also contains certain financial measures such as unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum, oil and gas realized revenues, cash production costs and cash operating margin, which are not recognized under generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. As required by SEC Regulation G, reconciliations of these measures to amounts reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements are in the supplemental schedules of this press release, which are also available on FCX's website, "www.fcx.com."

Freeport-McMoRan  20

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a. Amounts are net of Morenci's 15 percent joint venture partner's interest. 

b. On November 3, 2014, FCX completed the sale of its 80 percent interests in the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining operations. 

c. Amounts are net of Grasberg's joint venture partner's interest, which varies in accordance with the terms of the joint venture agreement. 

I

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a. Amounts are net of Morenci's 15 percent joint venture partner's interest. 

b. On November 3, 2014, FCX completed the sale of its 80 percent interests in the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining operations. 

c. Amounts are net of Grasberg's joint venture partner's interest, which varies in accordance with the terms of the joint venture agreement. 

II

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a. Includes the results of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines through November 3, 2014. 

b. Amounts represent the approximate average daily throughput processed at PT-FI's mill facilities from each producing mine. 

III

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Reflects properties in the Deepwater GOM and on the Shelf, including the Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous natural gas trend. 

b.Cash operating margin for oil and gas operations reflects realized revenues less cash production costs. Realized revenues exclude noncash mark-to-market adjustments on derivative contracts, and cash production costs exclude accretion and other costs. In addition, the derivative contracts for oil and gas operations are managed on a consolidated basis; accordingly, the average realized price per BOE by region does not reflect adjustments for derivative contracts. For reconciliations of average realized price and cash production costs per BOE to revenues and production and delivery costs reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedules, “Product Revenues and Production Costs,” beginning on page XIV, which is available on FCX's website, “www.fcx.com.”[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

d.Rounds to less than 1 MBbl per day.

e.FCX completed the sale of its Eagle Ford shale assets on June 20, 2014. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

IV

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes the results of Eagle Ford through June 19, 2014. 

b.Includes the results of FM O&G beginning June 1, 2013.

c.Reflects properties in the Deepwater GOM and on the Shelf, including the Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous natural gas trend. 

d.Cash operating margin for oil and gas operations reflects realized revenues less cash production costs. Realized revenues exclude noncash mark-to-market adjustments on derivative contracts, and cash production costs exclude accretion and other costs. In addition, the derivative contracts for oil and gas operations are managed on a consolidated basis; accordingly, the average realized price per BOE by region does not reflect adjustments for derivative contracts. For reconciliations of average realized price and cash production costs per BOE to revenues and production and delivery costs reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedules, “Product Revenues and Production Costs,” beginning on page XIV, which is available on FCX's website, “www.fcx.com.”[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

f.Rounds to less than 1 MBbl per day.

g.The year ended 2014 includes volume adjustments related to Eagle Ford's pre-close sales totaling 114 MBOE; excluding these amounts, average realized price was $25.97 per BOE and cash production costs were $12.73 per BOE.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

V

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

f.For further discussion of the net tax benefit (charge) impacting the fourth quarters and years 2014 and 2013, refer to the supplementary schedule, "Income Taxes" on page IX. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

VI

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

VII

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

VIII

FREEPORT-McMoRan INC.

INCOME TAXES

Following are summaries of the approximate amounts in the calculation of FCX's consolidated benefit (provision) for income taxes for the fourth quarters and years ended 2014 and 2013 (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Represents income (loss) by geographic location before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies' net (losses) earnings.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

d.Primarily resulting from changes in income contributed by each U.S. operation and refinement of state income tax filing positions.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

f.In accordance with applicable accounting rules, FCX adjusts its interim provision for income taxes equal to its estimated annualized tax rate. 

g.Reflects goodwill impairment charges, which were non-deductible for tax purposes.

h.Reflects net reductions in FCX's deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax asset valuation allowances resulting from the oil and gas acquisitions.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

IX

FREEPORT-McMoRan INC.

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

Provisional Pricing. For the year 2014, 44 percent of FCX's mined copper was sold in concentrate, 31 percent as cathode and 25 percent as rod from North America operations. Under the long-established structure of sales agreements prevalent in the industry, copper contained in concentrates and cathodes is provisionally priced at the time of shipment. The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted monthly average spot copper prices on the London Metal Exchange (LME). Because a significant portion of FCX's copper concentrate and cathode sales in any quarterly period usually remain subject to final pricing, the quarter-end forward price is a major determinant of recorded revenues and the average recorded copper price for the period. LME spot copper prices averaged $3.00 per pound during fourth-quarter 2014, compared to FCX's average realized price of $2.95 per pound. Following is a summary of the unfavorable impacts of net adjustments to prior periods' provisionally priced copper sales for the fourth quarters and years ended 2014 and 2013 (in millions, except per share amounts): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At December 31, 2014, FCX had provisionally priced copper sales at its copper mining operations, primarily South America and Indonesia, totaling 405 million pounds of copper (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average of $2.86 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months. FCX estimates that each $0.05 change in the price realized from the December 31, 2014, provisional price recorded would have an approximate $14 million effect on 2015 net income attributable to common stock. The LME spot copper price closed at $2.49 per pound on January 26, 2015. 

Oil and Gas. In connection with the acquisition of Plains Exploration & Production Company (PXP), FCX has derivative contracts for 2015 that consist of crude oil options, and had derivative contracts for 2013 and 2014 that consisted of crude oil options and natural gas swaps. These crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts are not designated as hedging instruments; accordingly, they are recorded at fair value with the mark-to-market gains and losses recorded in revenues each period. Realized cash gains (losses) on crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts totaled $64 million for fourth-quarter 2014, $(11) million for fourth-quarter 2013, $(122) million for the year 2014 and $(22) million for the seven-month period from June 1, 2013, to December 31, 2013. Additionally, following is a summary of net noncash mark-to-market gains (losses) on crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts for the fourth quarters and years ended 2014 and 2013 (in millions, except per share amounts): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Reflects the results of FM O&G beginning June 1, 2013. 

At December 31, 2014, the fair value of the crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts totaled a $526 million asset; partly offsetting the fair value is $210 million in deferred premiums and interest to be settled in future periods. Following presents the estimated increase (decrease) in the net asset on FCX's balance sheet of a 10 percent change in Brent crude oil prices on the fair values of outstanding crude oil derivative contracts, compared with forward prices used to determine the December 31, 2014 fair values (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

X

FREEPORT-McMoRan INC.

DEFERRED PROFITS

FCX defers recognizing profits on sales from its mining operations to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of Indonesia mining's sales to PT Smelting (PT Freeport Indonesia's 25 percent-owned Indonesian smelting unit) until final sales to third parties occur. Changes in these deferrals attributable to variability in intercompany volumes resulted in net reductions to net loss attributable to common stock totaling $7 million in fourth-quarter 2014 and $43 million for the year 2014, and net reductions to net income attributable to common stock of $46 million in fourth-quarter 2013 and $17 million for the year 2013. FCX's net deferred profits on its inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods' net income attributable to common stock totaled $73 million at December 31, 2014. Quarterly variations in ore grades, the timing of intercompany shipments and changes in product prices will result in variability in FCX's net deferred profits and quarterly earnings.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

FCX has organized its operations into six primary divisions – North America copper mines, South America mining, Indonesia mining, Africa mining, Molybdenum mines and U.S. Oil & Gas operations. Notwithstanding this structure, FCX internally reports information on a mine-by-mine basis for its mining operations. Therefore, FCX concluded that its operating segments include individual mines or operations relative to its mining operations. For oil and gas operations, FCX determines its operating segments on a country-by-country basis. Operating segments that meet certain thresholds are reportable segments, which are separately disclosed in the following tables and include the Morenci, Cerro Verde, Grasberg and Tenke Fungurume copper mines, the Rod & Refining operation and the U.S. Oil & Gas operations.

On November 3, 2014, FCX completed the sale of its 80 percent ownership interests in the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado copper mining operations, which are reported as components of Other South America mines.

Intersegment Sales. Intersegment sales between FCX’s mining operations are based on similar arms-length transactions with third parties at the time of the sale. Intersegment sales may not be reflective of the actual prices ultimately realized because of a variety of factors, including additional processing, timing of sales to unaffiliated customers and transportation premiums.

Allocations. FCX allocates certain operating costs, expenses and capital expenditures to its operating divisions and individual segments. However, not all costs and expenses applicable to an operation are allocated. U.S. federal and state income taxes are recorded and managed at the corporate level, whereas foreign income taxes are recorded and managed at the applicable country level. In addition, most mining exploration and research activities are managed on a consolidated basis, and those costs along with some selling, general and administrative costs are not allocated to the operating divisions or individual segments. Accordingly, the following segment information reflects management determinations that may not be indicative of what the actual financial performance of each operating division or segment would be if it was an independent entity.

XI

FREEPORT-McMoRan INC. 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS (continued)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a. Includes PT-FI's sales to PT Smelting totaling $304 million in fourth-quarter 2014 and $516 million in fourth-quarter 2013.

b. Includes revenues from FCX's molybdenum sales company, which includes sales of molybdenum produced by the molybdenum mines and by certain of the North and South America copper mines.

c. Includes net mark-to-market gains (losses) associated with crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts totaling $561 million in fourth-quarter 2014 and $(129) million in fourth-quarter 2013. 

d. Includes a gain of $671 million for the sale of the Candelaria/Ojos del Salado mining operations and the related income tax provision of $221 million.

e. Includes $38 million for shutdown costs associated with Atlantic Copper's scheduled 68-day maintenance turnaround, which was completed in fourth-quarter 2013.

XII

FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS (continued)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

b.Includes revenues from FCX's molybdenum sales company, which includes sales of molybdenum produced by the molybdenum mines and by certain of the North and South America copper mines.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

d.Includes a gain of $671 million for the sale of the Candelaria/Ojos del Salado mining operations and the related income tax provision of $221 million.

e.Includes $50 million for shutdown costs associated with Atlantic Copper's scheduled 68-day maintenance turnaround, which was completed in fourth-quarter 2013. 

f.Includes a credit of $199 million related to net reductions in FCX's deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax asset valuation allowances resulting from FCX's oil and gas acquisitions. 

XIII

FREEPORT-McMoRan INC.

PRODUCT REVENUES AND PRODUCTION COSTS

Mining Product Revenues and Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of FCX's mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations. FCX uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by its mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although FCX's measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.

FCX presents gross profit per pound of copper in the following tables using both a “by-product” method and a “co-product” method. FCX uses the by-product method in its presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of its revenues are copper revenues, (ii) it mines ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of FCX's costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals it produces, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by FCX's management and Board of Directors to monitor mining operations. In the co-product method presentations, shared costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent FCX's metals sales volumes and realized prices change.

FCX shows revenue adjustments for prior period open sales as a separate line item. Because these adjustments do not result from current period sales, these amounts have been reflected separately from revenues on current period sales. Noncash and other costs consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, start-up costs, write-offs of equipment and/or unusual charges. They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs. As discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method. The following schedules are presentations under both the by-product and co-product methods together with reconciliations to amounts reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements.

U.S. Oil & Gas Product Revenues and Cash Production Costs per Unit. Realized revenues and cash production costs per unit are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash operating margin of FCX's oil and gas operations. FCX uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by its oil and gas operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. FCX's measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.

FCX shows revenue adjustments from derivative contracts as separate line items. Because these adjustments do not result from oil and gas sales, these gains and losses have been reflected separately from revenues on current period sales. Additionally, accretion and other costs are removed from production and delivery costs in the calculation of cash production costs per BOE. The following schedules include calculations of oil and gas product revenues and cash production costs together with a reconciliation to amounts reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements. 

XIV

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

XV

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

XVI

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

XVII

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a. Includes gold sales of 8 thousand ounces ($1,191 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 633 thousand ounces ($16.57 per ounce average realized price). Also reflects sales of molybdenum produced by Cerro Verde to FCX's molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing.

b. Represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in the supplemental schedules, "Business Segments" beginning on page XI. 

c. Includes impairment of oil and gas properties of $3.4 billion.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a. Includes gold sales of 34 thousand ounces ($1,238 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 1.5 million ounces ($20.73 per ounce average realized price). Also reflects sales of molybdenum produced by Cerro Verde to FCX's molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing.

b. Includes $36 million ($0.09 per pound) associated with labor agreement costs at Cerro Verde.

c. Represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in the supplemental schedules, "Business Segments" beginning on page XI. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a. Includes gold sales of 67 thousand ounces ($1,271 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 2.9 million ounces ($18.54 per ounce average realized price). Also reflects sales of molybdenum produced by Cerro Verde to FCX's molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing.

b. Represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in the supplemental schedules, "Business Segments" beginning on page XI. 

c. Includes impairment of oil and gas properties of $3.7 billion.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a. Includes gold sales of 102 thousand ounces ($1,350 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 4.1 million ounces ($21.88 per ounce average realized price). Also reflects sales of molybdenum produced by Cerro Verde to FCX's molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing.

b. Includes $36 million ($0.03 per pound) associated with labor agreement costs at Cerro Verde.

c. Represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in the supplemental schedules, "Business Segments" beginning on page XI. 

XVIII

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a. Includes silver sales of 623 thousand ounces ($15.66 per ounce average realized price).

b. Represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in the supplemental schedules, "Business Segments" beginning on page XI.

c. Includes impairment of oil and gas properties of $3.4 billion.

XIX

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a. Includes silver sales of 1.1 million ounces ($19.49 per ounce average realized price).

b. Represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in the supplemental schedules, "Business Segments" beginning on page XI.

XX

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a. Includes silver sales of 2.2 million ounces ($17.42 per ounce average realized price).

b. Includes $143 million ($0.22 per pound) of fixed costs charged directly to cost of sales as a result of the impact of export restrictions on PT-FI's operating rates.

c. Represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in the supplemental schedules, "Business Segments" beginning on page XI.

d. Includes impairment of oil and gas properties of $3.7 billion.

XXI

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a. Includes silver sales of 2.9 million ounces ($21.32 per ounce average realized price).

b. Represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in the supplemental schedules, "Business Segments" beginning on page XI.

XXII

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

XXIII

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

XXIV

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

XXV

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

XXVI

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

XXVII

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

XXVIII

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

b. Represents the combined total for mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in the supplemental schedules, “Business Segments,” beginning on page XI. 

XXIX

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

XXX

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

b. Represents the combined total for mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in the supplemental schedules, “Business Segments,” beginning on page XI. 

c. Includes volume adjustments related to Eagle Ford's pre-close sales totaling 114 MBOE, revenues of $12 million and cash production credits of $1 million. Excluding these amounts, average realized price was $25.97 per BOE and cash production costs were $12.73 per BOE.

XXXI

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

XXXII