8-K   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C. 20549  

FORM 8-K  

CURRENT REPORT  

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of  

the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): January 30, 2015  

XEROX CORPORATION  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

P. O. Box 4505  

45 Glover Avenue  

Norwalk, Connecticut  

06856-4505  

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)  

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (203) 968-3000  

Not Applicable  

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)  

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):  

 ¨ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

 ¨ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

 ¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))  

 ¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))  

Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.  

On January 30, 2015, Registrant released its fourth quarter 2014 earnings and is furnishing to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.  

Exhibit 99.1 to this Report contains certain financial measures that are considered “non-GAAP financial measures” as defined in the SEC rules. Exhibit 99.1 to this Report also contains the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as well as the reasons why Registrant’s management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Registrant’s results of operations and, to the extent material, a statement disclosing any other additional purposes for which Registrant’s management uses the non-GAAP financial measures.  

The information contained in Item 2.02 of this Report and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report shall not be deemed “filed” with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.  

Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.  

(d) Exhibits.  

  Exhibit No.   

Description 

 99.1  Registrant’s fourth quarter 2014 earnings press release dated January 30, 2015  

Forward Looking Statements  

This Current Report on Form 8-K and any exhibits to this Current Report contain “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “will,” “should” and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management’s current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. These factors include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax matters in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; actions of competitors; our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring actions and the relocation of our service delivery centers; the risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term; the risk in the hiring and retention of qualified personnel; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred; the risk that subcontractors, software vendors and utility and network providers will not perform in a timely, quality manner; our ability to recover capital investments; the risk that our Services business could be adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in managing the start-up of new contracts; development of new products and services; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to expand equipment placements; the risk that individually identifiable information of customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security; service interruptions; interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; reliance on third parties, including subcontractors, for manufacturing of products and provision of services; our ability to drive the expanded use of color in printing and copying; the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; and other factors that are set forth in the “Risk Factors” section, the “Legal Proceedings” section, the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section and other sections of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2014, June 30, 2014 and September 30, 2014 and our 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required by law.  

On December 18, 2014, Xerox Corporation announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell its Information Technology Outsourcing (“ITO”) business to Atos S.E. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approval and is expected to close in the first half of 2015. As a result of the pending sale of the ITO business, and having met applicable accounting requirements, Xerox will report the ITO business as a discontinued operation. The forward looking statements contained in this Report and exhibits to this Report are subject to the risk that the sale of the ITO business may not occur on the terms, within the time and/or in the manner as previously disclosed, if at all. 

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly authorized this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized.  

Date: January 30, 2015  

 XEROX CORPORATION 

 By:    

/s/ Joseph H. Mancini, Jr. 

    Joseph H. Mancini, Jr. 

    Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer  

EXHIBIT INDEX  

  Exhibit No.    

Description 

 99.1   Registrant’s fourth quarter 2014 earnings press release dated January 30, 2015