EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

Stephen Rusckowski Elected to Xerox Board of Directors 

NORWALK, Conn., Feb. 19, 2015 – Xerox’s (NYSE: XRX) board of directors today

announced that Stephen H. Rusckowski has been elected to the board effective

Feb. 19, 2015. 

“Steve has shown impressive leadership at Quest, delivering value in everything he has

touched,” said Xerox Chairman and CEO Ursula Burns. “His vision of empowering

better health with diagnostic insights and his focus on collaboration within the

healthcare industry will be a guide for us as we continue to grow Xerox’s business

around the world.” 

Rusckowski, 57, is president and chief executive officer of Quest Diagnostics, a

position he was named to in 2012. Prior to joining Quest, Rusckowski was CEO of

Philips Healthcare. He joined Philips in 2001 when it acquired the Healthcare Solutions

Group he was leading at Hewlett-Packard/Agilent Technologies. 

Rusckowski serves as chairman of the American Clinical Laboratory Association, the

nation’s leading advocacy organization for the clinical laboratory industry. In addition,

he serves on the board of Project Hope, a global health education and humanitarian

assistance organization. 

He earned a bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering from Worcester

Polytechnic Institute and a master of science degree in management from the

Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Sloan School of Management. 

About Xerox 

Xerox is a global business services, technology and document management company

helping organizations transform the way they manage their business processes and

information. Headquartered in Norwalk, Conn., we have more than 140,000 Xerox

employees and do business in more than 180 countries. Together, we provide

business process services, printing equipment, hardware and software technology for

managing information — from data to documents. Learn more at www.xerox.com. 

-XXX- 

Media Contact: 

Karen Arena, Xerox, +1-203-849-5521, Karen.Arena@xerox.com 

Note: To receive RSS news feeds, visit http://news.xerox.com/rss. For open

commentary, industry perspectives and views visit 

http://www.linkedin.com/company/xerox, http://twitter.com/xeroxcorp, 

http://simplifywork.blogs.xerox.com, http://www.facebook.com/XeroxCorp or 

http://www.youtube.com/XeroxCorp. 

Xerox® and Xerox and Design® are trademarks of Xerox in the United States and/or

other countries.