EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

HCA Previews 2014 Results  

Nashville, Tenn., January 9, 2015 – HCA Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: HCA) today announced that it expects its Adjusted EBITDA to exceed its previously issued guidance range of $7.25 to $7.35 billion for 2014. Adjusted EBITDA for 2014 is now estimated to be approximately $7.4 billion. The Company anticipates reporting its fourth quarter 2014 results of operations and guidance for 2015 on February 3, 2015.  

Fourth quarter 2014 results will include a $68 million increase in Medicaid revenues related to the reversal of the Texas Medicaid Waiver Program adjustment to reduce revenues that was recorded in the third quarter of 2014.  

Same facility admissions for the fourth quarter of 2014 are expected to reflect an increase of approximately 5.0 percent and same facility emergency room visits are expected to reflect an increase of approximately 10.5 percent from the prior year’s fourth quarter.  

During the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company repurchased approximately 14 million shares of its common stock, completing its previously authorized $1.0 billion share repurchase program. The Company had 420,477,900 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2014.  

The Company is scheduled to present Monday, January 12, at 8:00 am (PST) at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference held at the Westin St. Francis Hotel in San Francisco, CA. A link to the live audio webcast is available and copies of the related presentation materials will be available at the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website, www.hcahealthcare.com.  

Forward-Looking Statements  

This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include statements that do not relate solely to historical facts and are subject to finalization of the Company’s fourth quarter financial and accounting procedures. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words like “may,” “believe,” “will,” “expect,” “project,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “initiative” or “continue.” These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of known and unknown uncertainties and risks, many of which are beyond our control, which could significantly affect  

 current plans and expectations and our future financial position and results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to, (1) the impact of our substantial indebtedness and the ability to refinance such indebtedness on acceptable terms, (2) the effects related to the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “Health Reform Law”), possible delays in or complications related to implementation of the Health Reform Law, the possible enactment of additional federal or state health care reforms and possible changes to the Health Reform Law and other federal, state or local laws or regulations affecting the health care industry, (3) the effects related to the continued implementation of the sequestration spending reductions required under the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “BCA”), and related legislation extending these reductions, and the potential for future deficit reduction legislation that may alter these spending reductions, which include cuts to Medicare payments, or create additional spending reductions, (4) increases in the amount and risk of collectability of uninsured accounts and deductibles and copayment amounts for insured accounts, (5) the ability to achieve operating and financial targets, and attain expected levels of patient volumes and control the costs of providing services, (6) possible changes in the Medicare, Medicaid and other state programs, including Medicaid upper payment limit programs or waiver programs, that may impact reimbursements to health care providers and insurers, (7) the highly competitive nature of the health care business, (8) changes in service mix, revenue mix and surgical volumes, including potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, the ability to enter into and renew managed care provider agreements on acceptable terms and the impact of consumer driven health plans and physician utilization trends and practices, (9) the efforts of insurers, health care providers and others to contain health care costs, (10) the outcome of our continuing efforts to monitor, maintain and comply with appropriate laws, regulations, policies and procedures, (11) increases in wages and the ability to attract and retain qualified management and personnel, including affiliated physicians, nurses and medical and technical support personnel, (12) the availability and terms of capital to fund the expansion of our business and improvements to our existing facilities, (13) changes in accounting practices, (14) changes in general economic conditions nationally and regionally in our markets, (15) the emergence and effects related to infectious diseases, including Ebola; (16) future divestitures which may result in charges and possible impairments of long-lived assets, (17) changes in business strategy or development plans, (18) delays in receiving payments for services provided, (19) the outcome of pending and any future tax audits, appeals and litigation associated with our tax positions, (20) potential adverse impact of known and unknown government investigations, litigation and other claims that may be made against us, (21) our ongoing ability to demonstrate meaningful use of certified electronic health record technology and recognize income for the related Medicare or Medicaid incentive payments, and (22) other risk factors described in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Many of the factors that will determine our future results are beyond our ability to control or predict. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements contained herein, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s views only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, or to make any other forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  

All references to “Company” and “HCA” as used throughout this release refer to HCA Holdings, Inc. and its affiliates.