EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

    news  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

HCA Reports Fourth Quarter 2014 Results  

Provides 2015 Guidance  

Board Authorizes New $1 Billion Share Repurchase Program  

Nashville, Tenn., February 3, 2015 – HCA Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: HCA) today announced financial and operating results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2014.  

Key fourth quarter metrics (all percentage changes compare 4Q 2014 to 4Q 2013 unless noted):  

   •   Revenues totaled $9.636 billion, an increase of 9.1 percent  

   •   Net income attributable to HCA Holdings, Inc. totaled $527 million, or $1.19 per diluted share  

   •   Adjusted EBITDA was $1.956 billion, an increase of 14.1 percent  

   •   Cash flows from operating activities totaled $1.627 billion, an increase of 32.7 percent  

   •   Same facility equivalent admissions increased 5.6 percent, while same facility admissions increased 5.0 percent  

   •   Same facility revenue per equivalent admission increased 2.5 percent  

HCA Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, R. Milton Johnson, said, “We are very pleased with the Company’s fourth quarter and full year 2014 results. We believe our focus on clinical excellence, strategic capital deployment and operational execution has positioned the Company well for the future.”  

On February 2, 2015, HCA’s Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to $1 billion of the Company’s outstanding common stock. Repurchases will be made in accordance with applicable securities laws from time to time in the open market, through privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise.  

Revenues in the fourth quarter totaled $9.636 billion, compared to $8.836 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013. Fourth quarter 2014 results include a $68 million increase in Medicaid revenues related to the reversal of the Texas Medicaid Waiver Program adjustment to reduce revenues that was recorded in the third quarter of 2014.  

1  

Fourth quarter revenue growth was driven by strong volume and higher revenue per equivalent admission, as same facility case mix, or acuity, increased 0.7 percent compared to the prior year. Same facility equivalent admissions increased 5.6 percent while same facility admissions increased 5.0 percent in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to the fourth quarter of 2013. Same facility emergency room visits increased 10.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to the prior year period. The increase in admissions in the fourth quarter was broad based across the Company’s markets and service lines.  

Revenue per equivalent admission increased 2.7 percent in the fourth quarter of 2014 (2.5 percent increase on a same facility basis), primarily reflecting acuity and payor mix changes in the quarter. During the fourth quarter same facility inpatient surgeries increased 2.4 percent while same facility outpatient surgeries declined 0.3 percent compared to the prior year period.  

The Company’s operating expense per equivalent admission, excluding electronic health record (“EHR”) and equity income, increased 1.4 percent from the prior year’s fourth quarter. During the fourth quarter of 2014, salaries and benefits, supplies and other operating expenses totaled $7.719 billion, or 80.1 percent of revenues, compared to $7.172 billion, or 81.2 percent of revenues, in the fourth quarter of 2013.  

Net income attributable to HCA Holdings, Inc. totaled $527 million, or $1.19 per diluted share, compared to $424 million, or $0.92 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2013. Results for the fourth quarter of 2014 include gains on sales of facilities of $9 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, and losses on retirement of debt of $109 million, or $0.15 per diluted share.  

Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2014 increased 14.1 percent to $1.956 billion compared to $1.714 billion in the prior year period. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. A table providing supplemental information on Adjusted EBITDA and reconciling net income attributable to HCA Holdings, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA is included in this release.  

Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2014  

Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 totaled $36.918 billion compared to $34.182 billion for 2013. Net income attributable to HCA Holdings, Inc. for 2014 was $1.875 billion, or $4.16 per diluted share, compared to $1.556 billion, or $3.37 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2013. Results for the year ended December 31, 2014 include gains on sales of facilities of $29 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, losses on retirement of debt of $335 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, and legal claims costs of $78 million, or $0.11 per diluted share. Results for 2013 include losses on sales of facilities of $10 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, and losses on retirement of debt of $17 million, or $0.02 per diluted share. Adjusted EBITDA for 2014 increased 13.0 percent to $7.428 billion compared to $6.574 billion in 2013. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. A table providing supplemental information on Adjusted EBITDA and reconciling net income attributable to HCA Holdings, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA is included in this release.  

2  

Balance Sheet and Cash Flow  

As of December 31, 2014, HCA Holdings, Inc.’s balance sheet reflected cash and cash equivalents of $566 million, total debt of $29.645 billion, and total assets of $31.199 billion. During the fourth quarter of 2014, capital expenditures totaled $694 million, excluding acquisitions. During the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company repurchased approximately 14 million shares of its common stock, completing its October 2014 $1.0 billion share repurchase authorization. The Company had approximately 420,477,900 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2014. Net cash provided by operating activities in the fourth quarter of 2014 totaled $1.627 billion compared to $1.226 billion in the prior year’s fourth quarter.  

As of December 31, 2014, HCA operated 166 hospitals and 113 freestanding surgery centers.  

2015 Guidance  

Today, HCA issued the following estimated guidance for 2015:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company’s 2015 guidance contains a number of assumptions, including:  

   •   The Company estimates approximately 6 to 7 percent of Adjusted EBITDA is attributable to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Health Reform Law);  

   •   EHR incentive income of $40-$50 million and EHR expenses in a range of $30-$40 million, as compared to EHR incentive income of $125 million and EHR expenses of $112 million in 2014;  

   •   An increase in share-based compensation expense to approximately $224 million from $163 million in 2014;  

   •   2015 guidance excludes the impact of items such as, but not limited to, gains or losses on sales of facilities, losses on retirement of debt, legal claim costs and impairments of long-lived assets; and  

   •   2015 guidance does not include any anticipated contribution in 2015 from certain items which positively impacted 2014 Adjusted EBITDA, including: (i) a $142 million increase to Medicaid revenues reflecting payments in excess of our estimates for the indigent care component of the Texas Medicaid Waiver Program for the program year ended September 30, 2013, and recorded in the 2nd quarter of 2014, (ii) $70 million less of Medicaid revenues related to the Texas Medicaid Waiver Program and (iii) $90 million in Medicare revenues recorded in 3Q 2014 in settlement for certain claims denied by Recovery Audit Contractors (“RAC”).  

The Company’s guidance is based on current plans and expectations and is subject to a number of known and unknown uncertainties and risks, including those set forth below in the Company’s “Forward-Looking Statements.”  

3  

The Company’s 2015 annual stockholders’ meeting will be held in Nashville, Tennessee on April 30, 2015 at 2:00 p.m. local time for stockholders of record as of March 6, 2015.  

Earnings Conference Call  

HCA will host a conference call for investors at 9:00 a.m. Central Standard Time today. All interested investors are invited to access a live audio broadcast of the call via webcast. The broadcast also will be available on a replay basis beginning this afternoon. The webcast can be accessed at: https://event.webcasts.com/starthere.jsp?ei=1051959 or through the Company’s Investor Relations web page at www.hcahealthcare.com.  

Forward-Looking Statements  

This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include statements that do not relate solely to historical facts. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words like “may,” “believe,” “will,” “expect,” “project,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “initiative” or “continue.” These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of known and unknown uncertainties and risks, many of which are beyond our control, which could significantly affect current plans and expectations and our future financial position and results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to, (1) the impact of our substantial indebtedness and the ability to refinance such indebtedness on acceptable terms, (2) the effects related to the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “Health Reform Law”), possible delays in or complications related to implementation of the Health Reform Law, court challenges, the possible enactment of additional federal or state health care reforms and possible changes to the Health Reform Law and other federal, state or local laws or regulations affecting the health care industry, (3) the effects related to the continued implementation of the sequestration spending reductions required under the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “BCA”), and related legislation extending these reductions, and the potential for future deficit reduction legislation that may alter these spending reductions, which include cuts to Medicare payments, or create additional spending reductions, (4) increases in the amount and risk of collectability of uninsured accounts and deductibles and copayment amounts for insured accounts, (5) the ability to achieve operating and financial targets, and attain expected levels of patient volumes and control the costs of providing services, (6) possible changes in the Medicare, Medicaid and other state programs, including Medicaid upper payment limit programs or waiver programs, that may impact reimbursements to health care providers and insurers, (7) the highly competitive nature of the health care business, (8) changes in service mix, revenue mix and surgical volumes, including potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, the ability to enter into and renew managed care provider agreements on acceptable terms and the impact of consumer driven health plans and physician utilization trends and practices, (9) the efforts of insurers, health care providers and others to contain health care costs, (10) the outcome of our continuing efforts to monitor, maintain and comply with appropriate laws, regulations, policies and procedures, (11) increases in wages and the ability to attract and retain qualified management and personnel, including affiliated physicians, nurses and medical and technical support personnel, (12) the availability and terms of capital to fund the expansion of our business and improvements to our existing facilities, (13) changes in accounting practices, (14) changes in general economic conditions nationally and regionally in our markets, (15) the emergence and effects related to  

4  

 infectious diseases, including Ebola; (16) future divestitures which may result in charges and possible impairments of long-lived assets, (17) changes in business strategy or development plans, (18) delays in receiving payments for services provided, (19) the outcome of pending and any future tax audits, appeals and litigation associated with our tax positions, (20) potential adverse impact of known and unknown government investigations, litigation and other claims that may be made against us, (21) our ongoing ability to demonstrate meaningful use of certified electronic health record technology and recognize income for the related Medicare or Medicaid incentive payments, and (22) other risk factors described in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Many of the factors that will determine our future results are beyond our ability to control or predict. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements contained herein, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s views only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, or to make any other forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  

All references to “Company” and “HCA” as used throughout this release refer to HCA Holdings, Inc. and its affiliates.  

5  

HCA Holdings, Inc.  

Condensed Consolidated Comprehensive Income Statements  

Fourth Quarter  

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

6  

HCA Holdings, Inc.  

Condensed Consolidated Comprehensive Income Statements  

For the Years Ended December 31, 2014 and 2013  

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

7  

HCA Holdings, Inc.  

Supplemental Non-GAAP Disclosures  

Operating Results Summary  

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Net income attributable to HCA Holdings, Inc., excluding losses (gains) on sales of facilities, losses on retirement of debt and legal claim costs, and Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as measures of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). We believe net income attributable to HCA Holdings, Inc., excluding losses (gains) on sales of facilities, losses on retirement of debt and legal claim costs, and Adjusted EBITDA are important measures that supplement discussions and analysis of our results of operations. We believe it is useful to investors to provide disclosures of our results of operations on the same basis used by management. Management relies upon net income attributable to HCA Holdings, Inc., excluding losses (gains) on sales of facilities, losses on retirement of debt and legal claim costs, and Adjusted EBITDA as the primary measures to review and assess operating performance of its hospital facilities and their management teams.  

   Management and investors review both the overall performance (including net income attributable to HCA Holdings, Inc., excluding losses (gains) on sales of facilities, losses on retirement of debt and legal claim costs, and GAAP net income attributable to HCA Holdings, Inc.) and operating performance (Adjusted EBITDA) of our health care facilities. Adjusted EBITDA and the Adjusted EBITDA margin (Adjusted EBITDA divided by revenues) are utilized by management and investors to compare our current operating results with the corresponding periods during the previous year and to compare our operating results with other companies in the health care industry. It is reasonable to expect that losses (gains) on sales of facilities, losses on retirement of debt and legal claim costs will occur in future periods, but the amounts recognized can vary significantly from period to period, do not directly relate to the ongoing operations of our health care facilities and complicate period comparisons of our results of operations and operations comparisons with other health care companies.  

   Net income attributable to HCA Holdings, Inc., excluding losses (gains) on sales of facilities, losses on retirement of debt and legal claim costs, and Adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance under GAAP, and should not be considered as alternatives to net income attributable to HCA Holdings, Inc. as a measure of operating performance or cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities as a measure of liquidity. Because net income attributable to HCA Holdings, Inc., excluding losses (gains) on sales of facilities, losses on retirement of debt and legal claim costs, and Adjusted EBITDA are not measurements determined in accordance with GAAP and are susceptible to varying calculations, net income attributable to HCA Holdings, Inc., excluding losses (gains) on sales of facilities, losses on retirement of debt and legal claim costs, and Adjusted EBITDA, as presented, may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures presented by other companies.  

8  

HCA Holdings, Inc.  

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets  

(Dollars in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

9  

HCA Holdings, Inc.  

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  

For the Years Ended December 31, 2014 and 2013  

(Dollars in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

10  

HCA Holdings, Inc.  

Operating Statistics  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

11